Migrating Flink service to a different hostCloudera Docs
Migrating Flink service to a different host
The Flink Dashboard role cannot be directly migrated from one host to another. You
        need to delete the existing role and add a new one to the host where you want to migrate the
        Flink Dashboard role. As Flink has mandatory dependencies for YARN, ZooKeeper and HDFS,
        these services should already be on the target host. 


Make sure that you have stopped your Flink jobs with savepoints, and saved your
                    Cloudera Manager configurations.For more information, see the Stopping Flink applications and
                        the Backing up the Cloudera Manager
                            configuration documentations.
Make sure that YARN, Zookeeper and HDFS services are already installed on the
                    target host.



Go your cluster in Cloudera Manager.

Select Flink from the list of services.

Click Instances.

Check the box for the Flink Dashboard role.

Click Action for Selected > Stop to stop the Flink Dashboard role.

Click Action for Selected > Restart to delete the Flink Dashboard role.
When deleting the Flink Dashboard role, an error message will be displayed as
                    the Flink Dashboard role is mandatory for the Flink
                    service:Service FLINK-1 has 0 Flink Dashboards. Flink requires at least 1 Flink Dashboard.

Add a new Flink Dashboard role instance to the target host.


Click Add Role Instances.
The Add Role Instances wizard appears.


Assign the Flink Dashboard role to a host.


Review the changes.


Click Finish.
The new role is stopped when added.



Check the box for the Flink Dashboard role.

Click Action for Selected > Restart to restart the new Flink Dashboard role.

Migrate the Flink configurations, and submit your Flink jobs to the host where
                    the newly added Flink Dashboard role is running.

Start your Flink applications from savepoint and restore
            the Cloudera Manager configurations.

Parent topic: Migration