Adding Flink as a ServiceCloudera Docs
Adding Flink as a Service
You need to use the Add Service wizard in Cloudera Manager to include the Flink
        service on your cluster. When assigning roles, you must install Flink, HDFS, and YARN roles
        on the same node from where the Flink jobs are submitted.


Make sure that the Flink CSD file is in the /opt/cloudera/csd
                    folder.
Make sure that the CSA parcel is added to Cloudera Manager.
Check that the following components are installed on your cluster:

Mandatory components
Optional components



YARN
Kafka


HDFS
HBase


Zookeeper
Schema Registry



Streams Messaging Manager



Kudu



Hive



Atlas





Open Cloudera Manager.

On the Home screen, select the drop-down menu to the right of your
                    cluster.

Select Add Service.

From the list, select Flink as the type of service, then
                    click Continue.
The Add Service wizard is displayed.

Choose HBase and Hive as Optional dependency if needed for the source and sink
                    solution, then click Continue.

Assign the Flink Dashboard role to one of the hosts, and the Flink Gateway role
                    to every host.

note
Make sure that you installed Flink, HDFS, and YARN Gateway roles on the
                            same machine that will be used to submit Flink jobs. The Flink Dashboard
                            role also depends on having HDFS client configurations on the same
                            machine. The HDFS client configurations can either be provided by an
                            HDFS daemon role implicitly or can be deployed by an HDFS Gateway role
                            explicitly. Furthermore, the YARN Gateway role must be added to the same
                            host as the Flink Dashboard role to resolve the YARN Resource Manager
                            URL.



Click Continue.

Review the changes needed for your service.
You can leave this page blank as the settings can be configured after the
                    Flink service is added. You can configure the security settings at Flink > Configuration > Security.

Click Continue and wait until the first run of the Flink
                    service is completed.

Click Continue and then
                    Finish.






You have added Flink as a service in Cloudera Manager.

Related informationInstalling CSD and parcelAdd SSB as a ServiceSetting up your HDFS Home directoryYou need an HDFS Home directory to store temporary logs and data of your application         to run a Flink job. You must set up the HDFS Home directory for your user to avoid error         when using Flink.Setting the Java executable for the Flink clientTo avoid error when using Flink, you must set the Java_home environment manually         through the command line for the Flink clients. The configuration in Cloudera Manager only         applies to services, and not to clients.Parent topic: Installation