Adding SSB as a ServiceCloudera Docs
Adding SSB as a Service
You need to use the Add Service wizard in Cloudera Manager to have the SQL Stream
        Builder (SSB) service on your cluster.


Make sure that the SSB CSD file is in the /opt/cloudera/csd
                    folder.
Make sure that the CSA parcel is added to Cloudera Manager.
Make sure that you have installed and configured the SSB databases correctly,
                    and installed the required Java drivers as well.
Check that the following components are installed on your cluster:

Mandatory components
Optional components



Flink
Schema Registry


Kafka
Kudu



Hive





Open Cloudera Manager.

On the Home screen, select the drop-down menu to the right of your
                    cluster.

Select Add Service.

From the list, select SQL Stream Builder as the type of
                    service, then click Continue.
The Add Service wizard launches.

Assign the SQL Stream Engine and Materialized View Engine service roles to
                    hosts, then click Continue.
You need to assign the service roles based on where you have created the
                    databases, and where you have assigned the Flink and Kafka roles.noteIf you
                        want to enable High Availability for SSB, assign the Load Balancer service
                        role to the same host.

Connect the SSB service to a database.

importantYou must install and configure MySQL/MariaDB, PostgreSQL
                        or Oracle database before adding SSB as a service. In case you did not set
                        up any database for your cluster, see the Configuring databases for
                            SSB documentation.



Select MySQL, PostgreSQL or Oracle as the type of database.

importantIf you plan to use Materialized Views in SSB, you
                                must install PostgreSQL database.



Choose the host on which you want to add the database.
You must add the databases to the same host where you have assigned
                            the service roles.


Provide a name to the database.


Provide the user and password of the created database.


Click Test connection.








Review the changes needed for your service.
In case you are using MySQL or Oracle for the Streaming SQL Engine, and
                    PostgreSQL for Materialized Views, you will be prompted to provide information
                    about the database for Materialized View Engine. Provide the database hostname
                    with the default port, your user and password in the Materialized View Engine
                        fields.

noteYou can configure the security properties for SQL Stream Builder in
                        this step, or after adding the service in the
                            Configuration page. For more information about
                        configuring security, see the Manage security documentation for
                        SQL Stream Builder.
In case you have enabled High Availability for SSB by adding the Load Balancer
                    role, you need to add the SSB service host url to the following
                        configurations:

warningWhen using Active Directory (AD) Kerberos
                        authentication you must add the SSB service host to the
                            loadbalancer.url parameter. This also applies when you
                        are not using High Availability for SSB. Without the
                            loadbalancer.url the installation of SSB fails. If the
                        installation fails, you need to provide the SSB service host to the
                            loadbalancer.url configuration, and regenerate the
                        keytab with Administration > Security > Kerberos Credentials > Generate
                                Missing Credentials steps.

Click Continue and wait until the first run of the SSB
                    service is completed.

Click Continue and then
                    Finish.







Related informationInstalling CSD and parcelAdd Flink as a ServiceInstall and configure MySQL for Cloudera SoftwareInstall and configure MariaDB for Cloudera SoftwareInstall and configure PostgreSQL for Cloudera SoftwareInstall and configure Oracle database for Cloudera SoftwareConfiguring MySQL/MariaDB for SSBConfiguring PostgreSQL for SSBConfiguring Oracle database for SSBParent topic: Installation