Monitoring Data Warehouse service resources with Grafana dashboardsCloudera Docs
Monitoring Data Warehouse service resources with Grafana dashboards
Grafana is visualization and analytics software that enables the development of
    dashboards to monitor metrics data. You can access pre-built Grafana dashboards to monitor
    Virtual Warehouses and your compute cluster in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW).
You connect to prebuilt dashboards to view metrics of CDW operations. Cloudera provides
      prebuilt Grafana dashboards for Hive, Impala, and Hue dashboards of metrics data, charts, and
      other visuals.
Using Grafana, CDP metrics are centralized in a single spot, stored in the Prometheus
      database, and monitored by Prometheus. Your workload databases are not involved in any way.
      You can immediately view the following pre-built dashboards:
Hive dashboards
The Hive dashboards cover the following operations of the Hive SQL engine in CDW:
Auto-scaling
Hive metastore
HiveServer
The Hive service itself (Hive-Home)
LLAP

Impala dashboards
The Impala dashboards include the following operations of the Impala SQL engine in
              CDW:
Catalog server
Coordinator
Executor
Statestore
The Impala service itself 


The following screenshot shows the available scratch and cache disk utilization graphs for
      the Impala Virtual Warehouse:


You can view dashboard metrics for different time periods by selecting the period of interest
      from the time range dropdown in the horizontal navigation.
On the Embedded Container Service (ECS) platform, you can view the CPU, memory,
      network usage, and disk input-output for each CDW node using the
      [***ENVIRONMENT-NAME***]-Nodes option. You can also expand the individual dashboards to see
      more details, as described in the following table: 

Dashboard name
Description
Available metrics



CPU
CPU utilization per node


Usage per node
Usage per user
Usage per system
Idle time
IO wait




Memory
Memory utilization per node


Usage per node
Buffer cache
Page cache
Total, used, and available




Network
Number of bytes and packets sent and received


Network transmitted
Network received
Network transmitted by an interface
Network received by an interface




Disk
Disk bytes read and written


Bytes written
Bytes read
IO wait time




noteNode-level metrics are currently available only for ECS
      environments.

Related informationGrafana documentationConnecting to Grafana dashboards in Private CloudYou can access Grafana from the Management Console and view various dashboards     related to the Data Warehouse service.Limitations of Grafana in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private CloudLearn about the Grafana capabilities in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) that Cloudera does   not support. Grafana in CDW is intended for use by cluster operations professionals who are   familiar with monitoring tools, interpreting metrics, and performing maintenance.