Downloading Hive diagnostic bundles in Data Warehouse Private CloudCloudera Docs
Downloading Hive diagnostic bundles in Data Warehouse Private Cloud
You can download diagnostic bundles for troubleshooting a Hive Virtual Warehouse in
        Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Private Cloud. The diagnostic bundles contain log files for
        the sidecar containers that support Hive components and for the components themselves. These
        diagnostic bundles are stored on HDFS in the form of ZIP files.
The log files are generated when you run some workloads on your Hive Virtual
            Warehouse.

Log in to the Data Warehouse service as a DWAdmin.

Go to a Hive Virtual Warehouse and click  > Collect Diagnostic Bundle.
The options for generating the diagnostic bundles are displayed as shown in
                    the following image: 



Select the time period for which you want to generate the logs.

Select the By Time Range option to generate logs
                        from last 30 minutes, one hour, 12 hours, or 24 hours.
Select By Custom Time Interval option to generate
                        logs for a specific time period based on your requirement.


noteYou must set the time range as per the UTC timezone.


Select the categories for which you want to generate the logs by selecting the
                    options from the Collect For section.
By default, ERRORDUMP, GCLOG, HEAPDUMP, HMS, LOGS, CRINFO, K8S-RESOURCE-INFO
                    are selected. Click X to remove the ones you do not
                    need.


ERRORDUMP contains exceptions from the containers
CGLOG contains JVM garbage collector-related logs
HEAPDUMP contains JVM heapdump
HMS contains sidecar container logs that support the
                            metastore
LOGS contains logs of Hive, Coordinator, and Executor
                            processes and their supporting containers


Optional: 
Select the Run even if there is an existing job option
                    to trigger another diagnostic bundle creation when one job is running.

Click Collect.
The following message is displayed: Collection of Diagnostic
                        Bundle for compute-1651060643-c97l initiated. Please go to details page for
                        more information.

Go to the Virtual Warehouses details page by clicking  > Edit.

Go to the DIAGNOSTIC BUNDLE tab.
The jobs that have been triggered for generating the diagnostic bundles are
                    displayed, as shown in the following image:



Click on the link in the Location column to download the
                    diagnostic bundle to your computer.


Parent topic: Troubleshooting issues in CDW Private Cloud