Create custom access policyCloudera Docs
Create custom access policy
If the user cannot access the component through an inherited Ranger access policy,
        you must create a custom Ranger access policy for the specific component and add the user to
        this policy. If all the users in a group require the same access, you can add the user group
        to the Ranger access policy.

A user might need access to specific NiFi or NiFi Registry resources such as a
                processor, processor group, remote process group, funnel, label, controller service,
                or bucket. Each custom Ranger access policy provides access to a specific component. 
First determine which NiFi or NiFi Registry components a user needs access to. Then
                create a new policy for each component and add the user or user group to the new
                policy. 
When you create a new policy, you must specify the ID of the component that the user
                requires access to. 
note
If a user requires permission to view or modify data for a specific component,
                    you must create a custom data access policy and add the user and the
                        nifi group to that policy. 
The nifi group is a dynamically-managed group that exists on all
                    Flow Management Data Hub hosts and contains the identities of NiFi and Knox
                    nodes. When you add the nifi group to the data policy for a
                    specific component, you authorize the nodes to access data on behalf of the
                    user.



From the NiFi canvas, copy the ID of the process group, SSL Context Service, or
                    controller service for reporting tasks that the user needs access to. 

Locate the ID for a process group: 


Click the process group.
The ID appears in the Operate
                                pane.




Copy the ID.



Locate the ID of the SSL Context Service:


Click the settings icon on the process group.
The NiFi Flow Configuration appears.


Click the Controller Services tab.


Click the Settings icon for the Default NiFi SSL
                            Context Service.
The Controller Service Details window
                            appears.


From the Settings tab, copy the ID from the
                                Id field.








Locate the ID of a controller service for reporting tasks: 


Click the process group.


Click the menu on the top right of the UI and select
                                Controller Settings.


The NiFi Settings page appears.


Click the Reporting Tasks Controller Services
                            tab.


Click the Settings icon for the controller
                            service. 


The Controller Service Details page
                            appears.


From the Settings tab, copy the ID from the
                                Id field.








Go back to the Ranger List of Policies page.

Click Add New Policy.


The Create Policy page appears.

Enter a unique name for the policy.

Optionally, enter a keyword in the Policy Label field to
                    aid in searching for a policy.

Enter the resource descriptor and the resource ID in the NiFi
                        Resource Identifier or NiFi Registry Resource
                        Identifier field in the following format: <resource
                        descriptor>/<resource ID>


To determine a NiFi resource descriptor, see Predefined Ranger
                                access policies for Apache NiFi.
To determine a NiFi Registry resource descriptor, see Predefined
                                Ranger access policies for Apache NiFI Registry.


Optional: 
Enter a description.

Add a user or a group.

noteIf a user requires permission to view or modify the
                        data for a specific component, you must create a data policy with
                            /data/<component-type>/<component-UUID> as the
                        resource identifier. Then add the user and the nifi group
                        to the policy to authorize the NiFi and Knox nodes to access data on behalf
                        of the user.


Set the permission level for the user or group.

Click Add.

The user or group of users can now access the component specified in the custom
            policy. 

Related informationPredefined Ranger access policies for Apache NiFiPredefined Ranger access policies for Apache NiFi RegistryParent topic: Assigning selective permissions to user