Predefined Ranger access policies for Apache NiFiCloudera Docs
Predefined Ranger access policies for Apache NiFi
You can review the predefined Ranger policies for NiFi to determine the appropriate
  policy to assign to a user. 
The following table lists the predefined Ranger access policies for NiFi. If you create a
   custom policy, refer to the Resource Descriptor column in this table to
   enter the value in the NiFi Resource Identifier field on the New
    Policy page.
important
Do not rename the default policies as some cluster operations rely on these policy names.
Do not select the Delegate Admin checkbox.

noteThe NiFi and Knox nodes have permission to the following Ranger policies:
Proxies; /proxy
Root Group Data; /data/process-groups




Ranger Policy
Description
Resource Descriptor



Controller
Allows users to view and modify the controller including
        Reporting Tasks, Controller Services, Parameter Contexts and Nodes in the Cluster.
/controller


Flow
Allows users to view the NiFi UI.
/flow


Policies
Allows users to view the policies for all components.
/policies


Provenance
Allows users to submit a Provenance Search and request Event
        Lineage.
/provenance


Proxies
Allows NiFi and Knox hosts to proxy user requests. Does not
        apply to users or user groups. 
/proxy


Restricted Components
Allows users to create/modify restricted components
         assuming other permissions are sufficient. The restricted components may
         indicate the specific permissions that are required. Permissions can be
         granted for specific restrictions or be granted regardless of restrictions. If permission
         is granted regardless of restrictions, the user can create/modify all restricted
         components.Some examples of restricted components are ExecuteScript, List/FetchHDFS,
        and TailFile.
/restricted-componentsSee the
          NiFi
          Restricted Components topic for information on the sub-policies. 


Root Group Data
Allows users and the nifi group to view and
        delete data from the root group and down the hierarchy unless there is a more specific
        policy on a component.noteThe nifi group is a
         dynamically managed list of Knox and NiFi node identities. The group exists on all Data Hub
         Flow Management hosts. 
/data/process-groups/<uuid>


Root Group Provenance Data
Allows users to view provenance data. 
/provenance-data/process-groups/


Root Process Group
Allows users to view and modify the root process group including
        adding/removing processors to the canvas.This policy is inherited down the hierarchy
         unless there is a more specific policy on a component.
/process-groups/<uuid>


Tenants
Allows users to view and modify user accounts and user
        groups.
/tenants




