Add user to predefined Ranger access policiesCloudera Docs
Add user to predefined Ranger access policies
After assigning the EnvironmentUser role to the new user, you must add the user to
        the appropriate predefined Ranger access policies for NiFi and NiFi Registry. These policies
        determine what the user can command, control, and observe in a NiFi dataflow or in the NiFi
        Registry.

Each
                predefined
                Ranger access policy confers specific rights to NiFi or NiFi Registry resources.
                When an authenticated flow-management user attempts to view or modify a NiFi or NiFi
                Registry resource, the system checks whether the user is associated with the
                specific Ranger access policy that confers the privileges to perform that
                action.
For more information, see:

Predefined Ranger access policies for NiFi resources
Preefined Ranger access policies for NiFi Registry
                        resources



From the base cluster with Ranger, click the Ranger
                    icon.
The Ranger Service Manager page appears. Each cluster in
                    the environment is listed under its respective service. For example, the NiFi
                    clusters in the environment are listed under NiFi.

Select a cluster from either the NiFi or NiFi
                        Registry section. 
The List of Policies page appears. The following image
                        shows the list of
                        predefined
                        policies for NiFi:




Click the ID for a policy.
The Edit Policy page appears.The following image shows
                        the list of
                        predefined
                        policies for NiFi:




In the Allow Conditions section, add the user or the
                    user group to the Select User field. 

Click Save.

The user now has the NiFi and NiFi Registry rights according to the policies you
            added the user or user group to. These rights are inherited down the hierarchy unless
            there is a more specific policy on a component.
Complete the steps listed in Create a custom access policy.

Related informationPredefined Ranger access policies for Apache NiFiPredefined Ranger access policies for Apache NiFi RegistryCreate custom access policyParent topic: Assigning selective permissions to user