Data Catalog TerminologyCloudera Docs
Data Catalog Terminology
An overview of terminology used in Data Catalog
      service.

Profiler
Enables the Data Catalog service to gather and view
               information about different relevant characteristics of data such as shape,
               distribution, quality, and sensitivity which are important to understand and use the
               data effectively. For example, view the distribution between males and females in
               column “Gender”, or min/max/mean/null values in a column named
               “avg_income”. Profiled data is generated on a periodic basis from the
               profilers, which run at regularly scheduled intervals. Works with data sourced from
               Apache Ranger Audit Logs, Apache Atlas Metadata Store, and Hive. 
Data Lake
A trusted and governed data repository that stores, processes, and provides access
               to many kinds of enterprise data to support data discovery, data preparation,
               analytics, insights, and predictive analytics. In the context of Cloudera Data
               Platform, a Data Lake can be realized in practice with an Cloudera Manager enabled
               Hadoop cluster that runs Apache Atlas for metadata and governance services, and
               Apache Knox and Apache Ranger for security services. 
Data Asset
A data asset is a physical asset located in the Hadoop ecosystem such as a Hive
               table which contains business or technical data. A data asset could include a
               specific instance of an Apache Hive database, table, or column. An asset can belong
               to multiple asset collections. Data assets are equivalent to “entities” in Apache
               Atlas. 
Datasets
Datasets allow users of Data Catalog to manage and govern
               various kinds of data objects as a single unit through a unified interface. Asset
               collections help organize and curate information about many assets based on many
               facets including data content and metadata, such as size/schema/tags/alterations,
               lineage, and impact on processes and downstream objects in addition to the display of
               security and governance policies. You can launch a Profiler cluster for a Data
                  Lake. Adding new assets to (or removing from) a dataset must be done manually.
               

Related informationData Catalog Overview