RecipesCloudera Docs
Recipes
 A recipe is a script that runs on all
    nodes of a selected host group at a specific time. You can use recipes to create and run scripts
    that perform specific tasks on your Data Hub, Data Lake, or FreeIPA cluster nodes.
You can use recipes for tasks such as installing additional software or
         performing advanced cluster configuration. For example, you can use a recipe to put a JAR
         file on the Hadoop classpath.
 Recipes can be uploaded and managed via the CDP web interface or CLI and then
         selected, when needed, for a specific cluster and for a specific host group. If selected,
         they will be executed on a specific host group at a specified time. 
 Depending on the need, a recipe can be executed at various times. Available
         recipe execution times are:

Before Cloudera Manager server start 
After Cloudera Manager server start 
After cluster installation
Before cluster termination

Recipes are stored on the Cloudera Manager server for the lifetime of the master node, and
      are executed at specific times of your choosing:

pre-service-deployment (formerly pre-cluster-manager-start):
        During a Data Hub, Data Lake, or environment deployment, the script will be executed on
        every node before the CM server starts, and after node repair or OS upgrade of a
        cluster.
post-cluster-manager-start: During a Data Hub or Data Lake deployment, the script
        will be executed on every node after the CM server starts, but before cluster installation.
        post-cluster-manager start recipes are also executed after node repair or OS upgrade of a
        cluster. This option is not available for FreeIPA recipes.
post-service-deployment (formerly post-cluster-install): The script will be
        executed on every node after cluster installation on the CM server is finished, and after
        node repair or OS upgrade of a cluster.
pre-termination: The script will be executed on every node before cluster
        termination.

noteOn the master node, recipes are triggered when the CM server starts; on other nodes,
      recipes are triggered when the CM agent starts.

Writing recipesRefer to these guidelines when creating your recipes.Register a recipeIn order to use your recipe for clusters, you must first register it with the     Management Console.Managing recipes from CLIYou can manage recipes from CLI using cdp datahub commands.