Show FreeIPA instance statusCloudera Docs
Show FreeIPA instance status
To see the status of each FreeIPA instance in an environment and determine which one(s)
    need to be repaired, run the CDP CLI get-freeipa-status command. 
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI
The host and status of the FreeIPA instances is displayed in the environment's
            Summary tab > FreeIPA section in the Management Console.
          If FreeIPA HA is enabled, tab will show status for all hosts:






The status shows the general health of the system and the cloud-provider ID of the host.
          If shown, the ID links to the cloud-provider's page for the host. A full list of status
          options can be found in FreeIPA instance status options.

Run the FreeIPA status command. Run this command from a computer that has network access
          to the FreeIPA hosts
          cdp environments get-freeipa-status --environment-name <value>
                      [--cli-input-json <value>]
                      [--generate-cli-skeleton]where
          the options are the following: 

Option
Description



--environment-name
                    <value>
Specifies the FreeIPA's environment name or CRN. The environment CRN is
                    listed in Environment > Summary > General. 


This command can take 15 to 45 seconds to run as it gathers information in real-time. The
          output of the status command provides the status for each FreeIPA node associated with the
          environment (in JSON
          format):{
    "environmentCrn": "crn:cdp:environments:us-west-1:12a0079b-1591-dd33-b721-a446bda74e67:environment:36853fcc-2fef-4094-834c-557b4aea34ee",
    "environmentName": "finance-reporting-set4",
    "status": "AVAILABLE",
    "instances": {
        "i-078ba50f9feb6638f": {
            "hostname": "ipaserver1.datalake.xcu2-8y8x.cloudera.site",
            "status": "CREATED",
            "issues": []
        },
        "i-09e8b54a343b33d2": {
            "hostname": "ipaserver0.datalake.xcu2-8y8x.cloudera.site",
            "status": "CREATED",
            "issues": []
        }
    } 




Element
Data Type
Description



environmentCrn
string
The CRN of the environment.


environmentName
string
The name of the environment.


status
string
The overall status of the FreeIPA cluster. The status values retrieved can
                    reflect an earlier status form the cloud provider. For example, AWS may show the
                    host as "Running," but the CDP CLI status command may show the status as
                    "UNREACHABLE." When this occurs, it is a temporary status. Calling the CDP CLI
                    status command again; eventually the status will change from "UNREACHABLE" to
                    "CREATED," which is the CDP equivalent to AWS "Running." A full list of status
                    values can be found in FreeIPA instance status options.


instances
map
Status of individual nodes in the FreeIPA cluster.


key
string
Each entry includes the cloud-provider ID for the host. The corresponding
                    value includes the status and issues of an individual FreeIPA node.



hostname
string
The hostname of the IPA instance.



issues
array
A list of issues the node is having. If there are no issues, the content is
                    a blank string.





Related informationRepair FreeIPAFreeIPA instance status optionsInstalling CDP clientFreeIPA instance status optionsA full list of FreeIPA instance status options for UI and CLI. This information is     displayed in the environment's Summary tab in the Management Console, or     via the cdp environments get-freeipa-status command.