Managing FreeIPACloudera Docs
Managing FreeIPA
FreeIPA is the backbone of the CDP Identity Management functionality. After you
    configure a CDP environment, FreeIPA works to provide user identities without the need for your
    attention. In case of problems, you may need to perform troubleshooting to ensure the health of
    the identity management system.
FreeIPA availability types
Historically, FreeIPA node count (also known as "availability types") can be one of the
          following:
3 nodes (HA)
2 nodes
1 node 
When registering a CDP environment via web UI, you cannot select FreeIPA node count,
        but CDP adjusts FreeIPA based on the Data Lake scale that you select:
For an Enterprise Data Lake, a FreeIPA cluster with 3 nodes (HA) is provisioned
For a Medium Duty Data Lake, a FreeIPA cluster with 3 nodes (HA) is provisioned
For a Light Duty Data Lake, a FreeIPA cluster with 2 nodes is provisioned
noteIf you scale an existing Data Lake, for example scaling from
          light duty to medium duty, the FreeIPA node count is unaffected.
When registering a CDP environment via CDP CLI, you can select the node count manually. You
        can choose to create 1+ (up to a maximum of 3). If you do not specify the node count, CDP
        automatically configures FreeIPA with one node only.
When HA is configured, this mode allows automatic failover should one FreeIPA instance fail
        and a scripted manual process to recover the system with no downtime should it fail. 
The CDP environment backs up the FreeIPA state periodically (by default, hourly). The
        backup data is stored on an attached volume (AWS) or managed disk (Azure). This backup
        allows the state to be recovered in the event of a failure. Without HA mode enabled,
        recovering from a FreeIPA failure requires a recovery process that is facilitated by
        Cloudera technical support.
For each running environment, the host and status of the FreeIPA instance is displayed in
        the environment's Summary tab in the Management Console.

FreeIPA HA
By default, CDP creates multiple FreeIPA instances and replicates identity management data
        across all of them. Should there be a conflict synchronizing across instances, the system
        maintains the "last in" content. If one of the FreeIPA instances fails to pass the
        environment's status checks, the overall status for FreeIPA turns gray. The FreeIPA clients
        switch to another FreeIPA instance and the system remains functional. After a week in this
        state, the identity management system may start to fail from certificates expiring and other
        problems. 
When you see a status other than "Running", follow these steps to investigate and resolve problems:
Determine which FreeIPA instance or instances need attention.To retrieve a detailed
              status, use the CDP command-line interface. See Show FreeIPA instance
              status.
Repair one or more FreeIPA instances. The CDP command-line interface includes a
              command to trigger a FreeIPA check and reboot repair process. The repair command
              should resolve most problems with the identity management system. For example, it
              checks to see if FreeIPA hosts are stopped and restarts them. If hosts are running,
              the repair process will restart them. The repair command may cause cluster outage:
If at least one instance is running, the repair command can avoid an
                  outage.
If all instances have failed, the repair command won't be able to avoid an
                  outage.
If the repair command is run with its "force" option against all instances, the
                  command will cause an outage.
If the FreeIPA status for the environment returns to "Running", you can
              stop here.
Rebuild the identity management system.When repairing a FreeIPA instance, the CDP
              command-line interface includes a command to trigger a rebuild process that destroys
              and rebuilds N-1 nodes in the identity management system. This process restores
              content from the most recent backup and does not require cluster downtime. If
              all nodes need to be repaired or if the unsupervised rebuild process fails, Cloudera
              Technical Support can help you perform a rebuild of the identity management system and
              restore content from a backup. This process will require cluster downtime. 


FreeIPA failure scenarios
Because FreeIPA is a background system, you are not likely to encounter
       any failures that include a specific reference to FreeIPA in the error
       text. Instead, problems with FreeIPA show up as DNS problems, user login
       problems that raise Kerberos errors, and authentication errors when
       provisioning workload clusters. If you encounter these general errors,
       consider checking the status of the FreeIPA system.


Related informationCreating an environment configured with FreeIPAShow FreeIPA instance statusUpgrade FreeIPARepair FreeIPAResize FreeIPAConfiguring workload password policiesAccessing a FreeIPA cluster via SSHCDP identity
               management