Upgrade FreeIPACloudera Docs
Upgrade FreeIPA
To ensure that your FreeIPA nodes are running with the latest patches, you should
  periodically upgrade your FreeIPA cluster.
FreeIPA is the core component of an environment that runs on one or more
   instances.
To ensure that your FreeIPA nodes are running with the latest patches, you should periodically
   upgrade your FreeIPA cluster. CDP currently allows you to upgrade all FreeIPA clusters, updating
   OS-level security patches on the cluster nodes. The upgrade process includes launching entirely
   new instances with the new OS image.
The upgrade process is a rolling upgrade consisting of the following steps: 


A new instance is provisioned from a newer image.


CDP validates that the new node is reachable, all services are up, and that
     replication works. 


The old instance is removed. 


If there is more than one instance in the cluster, the previous 3 steps are
     repeated for the second instance only after the first instance has been successfully upgraded.
    


Your environment remains functional during the upgrade process, with an exception of
   a short (one minute or less) downtime. 
During FreeIPA provisioning a full backup is performed and there are periodic
   incremental backups afterwards. These backups can be used in case a recovery is needed.
Use either the CDP web interface or CDP CLI to initiate an upgrade. The upgrade
   process takes about one hour; The duration varies depending on the cloud provider and the number
   of nodes.
Performing a FreeIPA upgrade

You can trigger the FreeIPA upgrade via CDP web interface or CDP CLI. The upgrade option from the Actions menu is always available, but once you click on
      it, you will get to the page that actually allows you to upgrade. On this page, the button
      that allows you to upgrade is only enabled when there are updates available. Required
      roles: EnvironmentAdmin or Owner of the environment 

Steps
CDP UICDP CLI


Log in to the CDP web interface.


From the navigation pane, select Environments.


Click on your environment.


Click on the Summary tab.


Scroll down to the FreeIPA section.


Click on Actions > Upgrade FreeIPA:



Review the information presented on the FreeIPA Upgrade page. This page shows information
       related to your current base image and the target base image that will be used for
       provisioning new instances during the upgrade process. Once you’ve reviewed the information,
       click on Upgrade.


The upgrade process starts. During the upgrade, FreeIPA status switches to “Update in
       progress”, but the environment remains available. A new instance is provisioned, then the old
       instance is removed: 





If more than one instance is present, the process is repeated for the additional
       instances. 
Once the upgrade is completed, the FreeIPA status changes to “Running”: 



Note that environment status does not change during the FreeIPA upgrade process and
      environment’s Event History does not include any related updates. 

Use the following command to trigger FreeIPA
      upgrade:cdp environments upgrade-freeipa --environment-name <ENVIRONMENT_NAME_OR_CRN>For
      example: cdp environments upgrade-freeipa --environment-name my-env
The command will return a JSON including target and original image information and the
      operation ID.
{
    "targetImage": {
        "catalog": "https://gist.githubusercontent.com/lacikaaa/c096c999ade874a60bf15be897220eed/raw/e30ed12b14c77175b82ceb9caf26500ab1340f26/freeipa-test-catalog.json",
        "id": "9c1c8959-86a7-4b7d-af5a-be252f8b395d",
        "os": "centos7",
        "imageName": "ami-0dfafedeed3a4474f",
        "date": "2021-06-10"
    },
    "originalImage": {
        "catalog": "https://gist.githubusercontent.com/lacikaaa/c096c999ade874a60bf15be897220eed/raw/e30ed12b14c77175b82ceb9caf26500ab1340f26/freeipa-test-catalog.json",
        "id": "0b73e149-6e22-4667-acc5-1d0ba82f8245",
        "os": "centos7",
        "imageName": "ami-030e1d907cfa5ca33",
        "date": "2021-06-04"
    },
    "operationId": "28432209-a4ff-4aea-a8ec-4604d67cdb7c"
}Use
      the following command to track the progress of the upgrade
      process:cdp environments get-repair-freeipa-status --operation-id <OPERATION-ID-FROM-UPGRADE-FREEIPA-COMMAND-OUTPUT>The
      operation ID can be obtained from the output of the upgrade-freeipa
      command.

In rare cases, the FreeIPA upgrade process might fail. In such cases, you should trigger a
    retry of the FreeIPA upgrade. 

Retry a FreeIPA upgrade
In rare cases, the FreeIPA upgrade process might fail. In such cases, you should
    trigger a retry of the FreeIPA upgrade.
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI
If you are performing the upgrade via CDP web interface, you can find the retry
    option in the same FreeIPA Actions menu where the upgrade option is located: 


The Retry option is grayed out if there is no reason to trigger the repair
    and is only enabled when FreeIPA upgrade encounters problems. 

If you would like to trigger the repair via CDP CLI, use the following
    command:cdp environments retry-freeipa –environment <MY-ENVIRONMENT-NAME-OR-CRN>
The command returns an operation ID that you can pass in the following command to track the
    status of the repair:
    cdp environments get-repair-freeipa-status --operation-id <OPERATION-ID-FROM-UPGRADE-FREEIPA-COMMAND-OUTPUT>


Troubleshooting



Issue
Workaround



After performing a FreeIPA upgrade, CDW VMs are broken due to the new FreeIPA server
         instances' IP addresses not being reflected in CDW.
Manually restart every cdp-coredns-updater pod running in your CDW
         Kubernetes cluster namespace.


After performing a FreeIPA upgrade, CML workspaces are broken because the IP addresses 
         of the new FreeIPA 
         server instances are not reflected in CML.
Restart the cdp-coredns-updater pod by running kubectl delete -n kube-system 
         $(kubectl get pods -n kube-system -l app.kubernetes.io/name=cdp-coredns-updater --no-headers 
         -o name) against your CML kubernetes cluster as soon as the FreeIPA upgrade has completed.





Related informationRepair FreeIPA