Profile Selector LanguageCloudera Docs
Profile Selector Language
The domain specific language for the profile selector can be broken into a series of
      clauses, some of which are optional.

Total Temporal Duration

The total range of time in which windows may be specified

Temporal Window Width

The size of each temporal window

Skip distance

(optional) How far to skip between when one window starts and when the next
                begins

Inclusion/Exclusion specifiers

(optional) The set of specifiers to further filter the window


You must specify either a total temporal duration or
          a temporal window width. The remaining clauses are optional.
From a high level, the domain specific language fits the following three forms, which
          are composed of the clauses above:


time_interval Window (INCLUDING specifier list) (EXCLUDING specifier list)
temporal window width inclusion specifiers exclusion specifier


time_interval WINDOW EVERY time_interval FROM time_interval (TO time_interval)
              (INCLUDING specifier_list) (EXCLUDING specifier list)
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration inclusion specifiers
              exclusion specifier


FROM time_interval (TO time_interval)
total temporal duration total temporal duration



Total Temporal Duration

Total temporal duration is specified by a phrase: FROM time_interval AGO TO
            time_interval AGO. This indicates the beginning and ending of a time interval.
          This is an inclusive duration.


FROM


Can be the words "from" or "starting from".


time_interval


A time amount followed by a unit (for example, 1 hour). Fractional amounts are
                not supported. The unit may be "minute", "day", "hour" with any
                pluralization.


TO


Can be the words "until" or "to".


AGO


(optional) The word "ago"


The TO time_interval AGO portion is optional. If this portion is
          unspecified then it is expected that the time interval ends now.
Due to the vagaries of the English language, the from and the
            to portions, if both are specified, are interchangeable with regard to
          which one specifies the start and which specifies the end. In other words "starting from 1
          hour ago to 30 minutes ago" and "starting from 30 minutes ago to 1 hour ago" specify the
          same temporal duration.

Total Temporal Duration Examples

The domain specific language allows for some flexibility on how to specify a duration.
          The following are examples of various ways you can specify the same duration.


A duration starting 1 hour ago and ending now:


from 1 hour ago


from 1 hour


starting from 1 hour ago


starting from 1 hour




A duration starting 1 hour ago and ending 30 minutes ago:


from 1 hour ago until 30 minutes ago


from 30 minutes ago until 1 hour ago


starting from 1 hour ago to 30 minutes ago


starting from 1 hour to 30 minutes





Temporal Window Width

Temporal window width is the specification of a window. A window may either repeat
          within a total temporal duration or it may fill the total temporal duration. This is an
          inclusive window. A temporal window width is specified by the phrase: time_interval
            WINDOW.


time_interval


A time amount followed by a unit (for example, 1 hour). Fractional amounts are
                not supported. The unit may be "minute", day", or "hour" with any
                pluralization.

WINDOW

(optional) The word "window".



Temporal Window Width Examples



A fixed window starting 2 hours ago and going until now


2 hour


2 hours


2 hours window




A repeating 30 minute window starting 2 hours ago and repeating every hour until
              now. This would result in 2 30-minute wide windows: 2 hours ago and 1 hour ago


30 minute window every 1 hour starting from 2 hours ago
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration


30 minute windows every 1 hour from 2 hours ago
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration





Skip Distance

Skip distance is the amount of time between when one temporal window begins and the
          next window starts. It is, in effect, the window period. It is specified by the phrase
            EVERY time_interval.

time_interval

A time amount followed by a unit (for example, 1 hour). Fractional amounts are
                not supported. The unit may be "minute", "day", or "hour" with any
                pluralization.

EVERY

The word/phrase "every" or "for every".



Skip Distance Examples



A repeating 30 minute window starting 2 hours ago and repeating every hour until
              now. This would result in 2 30-minute wide windows: 2 hours ago and 1 hour ago


30 minute window every 1 hour starting from 2 hours ago
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration


30 minutes window every 1 hour from 2 hours ago
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration




A repeating 30 minute window starting 2 hours ago and repeating every hour until
              30 minutes ago. This would result in 2 30-minute wide windows: 2 hours ago and 1 hour
              ago


30 minute window every 1 hour starting from 2 hours ago until 30 minutes
                  ago
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration


30 minutes window every 1 hour from 2 hours ago to 30 minutes ago
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration


30 minutes window for every 1 hour from 30 minutes ago to 2 hours ago
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration





Inclusion/Exclusion Specifiers

Inclusion and Exclusion specifiers operate as filters on the set of windows. They
          operate on the window beginning timestamp.
For inclusion specifiers, windows that are passed by any of the set of inclusion specifiers are included. Similarly, windows that
          are passed by any of the set of exclusion specifiers
          are excluded. Exclusion specifiers trump inclusion specifiers.
Specifiers follow one of the following formats depending on if it is an inclusion or
          exclusion specifier:


INCLUSION specifier, specifier, ...
INCLUSION can be "include", "includes" or "including"


EXCLUSION specifier, specifier, ...
EXCLUSION can be "exclude", "excludes" or "excluding"


The specifiers are a set of fixed specifiers available as part of the language:


Fixed day of week-based specifiers - includes or excludes if the window is on the
              specified day of the week


"monday" or "mondays"


"tuesday" or "tuesdays"


"wednesday" or "wednesdays"


"thursday" or "thursdays"


"friday" or "fridays"


"saturday" or "saturdays"


"sunday" or "sundays"


"weekday" or "weekdays"


"weekend" or ""weekends"




Relative day of week-based specifiers - includes or excludes based on the day of
              week relative to now


"current day of the week"


"current day of week"


"this day of the week"


"this day of week"




Specified date - includes or excludes based on the specified date


"date" - Takes up to 2 arguments


The day in yyyy/MM/dd format if no second argument is
                      provided
Example: date:2017/12/25 would include or exclude December
                      25, 2017


(optional) The format in which to specify the first argument
Example: date:20171225:yyyyMMdd would include or exclude
                      December 25, 2017






Holidays - includes or excludes based on if the window starts during a
              holiday


"holiday" or "holidays"


Arguments form the jollyday hierarchy of holidays. For example, "us:nyc"
                              would be holidays for New York City, USA
Countries supported are those supported in jollyday 
Example: holiday:us:nyc would be the holidays of New York
                      City, USA


If none is specified, it will choose based on locale.
Example: holiday:hu would be the holidays of Hungary







Inclusion/Exclusion Specifiers Examples

The following are inclusion/exclusion specifier examples and identify the various
          clauses used in these examples.
Assume the following examples are executed at noon.


A 1 hour window for the past 8 'current day of the week'


1 hour window every 24 hours from 56 days ago including this day of the
                  week
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration
                  inclusion/exclusion specifiers




A 1 hour window for the past 8 tuesdays


1 hour window every 24 hours from 56 days ago including tuesdays
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration
                  inclusion/exclusion specifiers




A 30 minute window every tuesday at noon starting 14 days ago until now


30 minute window every 24 hours from 14 days ago including tuesdays
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration
                  inclusion/exclusion specifiers




A 30 minute window every day except holidays and weekends at noon starting 14 days
              ago until now


30 minutes every 24 hours from 14 days ago excluding holidays:us,
                  weekends
30 minutes every 24 hours from 14 days ago including weekdays excluding
                  holidays:us, weekends
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration
                  inclusion/exclusion specifiers




A 30 minute window at noon every day from 7 days ago including saturdays and
              excluding weekends. Because exclusions trump inclusions, the following will never
              yield any windows


30 minute window every 24 hours from 7 days ago including saturdays excluding
                  weekends
temporal window width skip distance total temporal duration
                  inclusion/exclusion specifiers





Parent topic: Specifying Profile Time and Duration