Specifying Profile Time and DurationCloudera Docs
Specifying Profile Time and Duration
The third required argument for PROFILE_GET is a list of
         ProfilePeriod objects. These objects allow you to specify the timing,
      frequency, and duration of the PROFILE_GET. This list is produced by another
      Stellar function. There are two options available: PROFILE_FIXED and
         PROFILE_WINDOW.

PROFILE_FIXED
PROFILE_FIXED specifies a fixed period to look back at the
                  profiler data starting from now. These are ProfilePeriod objects.
REQUIRED:


durationAgo
How long ago should values be retrieved from?


units
The units of 'durationAgo'.


OPTIONAL:


config_overrides
Map (in curly braces) of name:value pairs, each overriding the global
                           config parameter of the same name. Default is the empty Map, meaning no
                           overrides.
For example, to retrieve all the profiles for the last 5 hours:
                           PROFILE_GET('profile', 'entity', PROFILE_FIXED(5, 'HOURS'))


PROFILE WINDOW
PROFILE_WINDOW provides a finer-level of control over selecting
                  windows for profiles. This profile selector allows you to specify the exact time,
                  duration, and frequency for the profile. It does this by a domain specific
                  language that mimics natural language that defines the excluded windows. You can
                  use PROFILE_WINDOW to specify:
Windows relative to the data timestamp (see the optional
                           now parameter below)
Non-contiguous windows to better handle seasonal data (for example, the
                        last hour for every day for the last month)
Profile output excluding holidays
Only profile output on a specific day of the week

REQUIRED:


windowSelector
The statement specifying the window to select.


now
Optional - The timestamp to use for now.


OPTIONAL:


config_overrides
Map (in curly braces) of name:value pairs, each overriding the global
                           config parameter of the same name. Default is the empty Map, meaning no
                           overrides.


For example, to retrieve all the measurements written for 'profile' and 'entity' for the
        last hour on the same weekday excluding weekends and US holidays across the last 14 days:
        PROFILE_GET('profile', 'entity', PROFILE_WINDOW('1 hour window every 24 hours starting from 14 days ago including the current day of the week excluding weekends, holidays:us'))


noteThe config_overrides parameter operates exactly as the
                  config_overrides argument in PROFILE_GET. The
               only available parameters for override are:
profiler.client.period.duration
profiler.client.period.duration.units


Profile Selector LanguageThe domain specific language for the profile selector can be broken into a series of       clauses, some of which are optional.Parent topic: Accessing Profiles