Streaming Profiler PropertiesCloudera Docs
Streaming Profiler
      Properties
Use the profiler properties to configure the streaming profiler.
Table 1. Profiler Properties


Ambari Configs Field.

Settings

Description



Profiler Setup




Period Duration
profiler.period.duration
The duration of each profile period. This value should be defined along
                        with profiler.period.duration.units.


Period Units
profiler.period.units
The units is used to specify the
                           profiler.period.duration. This value should be define along with
                           profiler.period.duration. 


Window Duration
profiler.window.duration
The duration of each profile window.


Window Units
profiler.window.duration.units
The units used to specify the
                        profiler.window.duration.


Time to Live
profiler.ttl
If a message has not been applied to a Profile in this period of time,
                        the Profile will be terminated and its resources will be cleaned up. This
                        value should be defined along with profiler.ttl.units. This time-to-live
                        does not affect the persisted Profile data in HBase. It only affects the
                        state stored in memory during the execution of the latest profile period.
                        This state will be deleted if the time.to.live is
                        exceeded.


Time to Live Units
profiler.ttl.units
The units used to specify the profiler.ttl.


Window Time Lag
profiler.window.log
The maximum time lag for timestamps.


Window Lag Units
profiler.window.log.units
The units used to specify the
                        profiler.window.lag.


Max Routes Per Bolt
profiler.max.routes.per.bolt
The maximum number of routes that will be maintained by the bolt. After
                        this value is exceeded, lesser used routes will be evicted from the internal
                        cache.


Kafka




Input Topic Start
profiler.kafka.start
One of EARLIEST, LATEST, UNCOMMITTED_EARLIEST,
                        UNCOMMITTED_LATEST


Kafka Writer Batch Size
profiler.writer.batchSize
The number of records to batch when writing to Kakfa.


Kafka Writer Batch Timeout
profiler.writer.batchTimeout
The timeout in ms for batching when writing to Kakfa.


Storm




topology.worker.childopts
profiler.topology.worker.childopts
Extra topology child opts for the storm opts.


Number of Workers
profiler.topology.workers
The profiler storm topology storm workers


Number of Acker Executors
profiler.acker.executors
The profiler storm topology acker executors


Profiler Topology Message Timeout
topology.message.timeout.secs
Maximum amount of time given to the topology to fully process a tuple
                        tree from the core-storm API, or a batch from the Trident API, emitted by a
                        spout. If the message is not acked within this time frame, Storm fails the
                        operation on the spout. The default is 30 seconds.


Spout Max Pending Tuples
topology.max.spout.pending
Maximum number of messages that can be pending in a spout at any time.
                        The default is null (no limit).


HBase




HBase Table
profiler.hbase.table
The name of the HBase table the profiler is written to. The profiler
                        expects that the table exists and is writable. 


HBase Table Column Family
profiler.hbase.cf
The column family used to store profile data in HBase.


HBase Batch Size
profiler.hbase.batch
The number of puts that are written to HBase in a single batch.


HBase Flush Interval
profiler.hbase.flush.interval
The maximum number of seconds between batch writes to HBase.


N/A
profiler.writer.batchSize
The size of the batch that is written to Kafka at once. Defaults to 15
                        (size of 1 disables batching).


N/A
profiler.writer.batchTimeout
The timeout after which a batch will be flushed even if batchSize has
                        not been met. Optional. If unspecified or set to 0, it defaults to a
                        system-determined duration which is a fraction of the Storm parameter
                           topology.message.timeout.secs. Ignored if batchsize is 1
                        because this disables batching.



Parent topic: Streaming Profiler