Using ProfilersCloudera Docs
Using Profilers
The Profiler is a
    feature extraction mechanism that can generate a profile that describes the behavior of an
    entity. An entity can be a server, user, subnet, or application. 
You can use any field
      contained within a message to generate a profile. A profile can even be produced by combining
      fields that originate in different data sources. You can transform the data used in a profile
      by leveraging the Stellar language.
Once you generate a profile defining what normal behavior looks like, you can build models
      that identify anomalous behavior. To identify anomalous behavior, you can summarize the
      streaming telemetry data consumed by CCP over sliding windows. You apply a summary statistic
      to the data received within a given window. Collecting this summary across many windows
      results in a time series that is useful for analysis.
The Profiler is
      automatically installed and started when you install CCP through Ambari.
CCP provides two types of profilers:

Streaming Profiler
Allows you to create profiles based on the stream of telemetry being captured, enriched,
          triaged, and indexed by CCP. This does not allow you to create a profile based on
          telemetry that was captured in the past.
Batch Profiler
Allows you to generate a profile using archived telemetry.


Install and Configure the ProfilerThe Profiler is automatically installed and started when you install CCP through       Ambari. Running the ProfilerThe Profiler is automatically started when you install CCP. However, you can also       manually stop or restart the Profiler.Streaming ProfilerA streaming profile         creates a profile based on telemetry that is currently being captured, enriched, triaged,         and indexed by CCP. Streaming profiles can be used to understand real-time behaviors and         trends. You can use the streaming profiler and the batch profiler to gather and understand         both current and historical behaviors and trends. This information can be used to determine         if the profiler feature set matches reality and has predictive value for model building. Batch ProfilerA batch profile creates         a profile based on telemetry that was captured in the past. This is sometimes referred to as         profile seeding or backfilling. Batch profiles can be used to understand the historical         behaviors and trends of a profile to determine if the profile has predictive value for model         building. You can use the streaming profiler and the batch profiler to gather and understand         both current and historical behaviors and trends. This information can be used to determine         if the profiler feature set matches reality and has predictive value for model building. Accessing ProfilesYou can use a client API to access the profiles generated by the CCP Profiler to use       for model scoring. CCP provides a Stellar API to access the profile data but this section       provides only instructions for using the Stellar client API. You can use this API in       conjunction with other Stellar functions such as MAAS_MODEL_APPLY to perform       model scoring on streaming data.