CDP security FAQsCloudera Docs
CDP security FAQs
This topic covers frequently asked questions related to the communication between the
  CDP Control Plane and workload subnets.
Data security within workload subnets and virtual networks
CDP provides comprehensive security features to ensure that minimal network
    configuration is needed on workload clusters and that only metrics, logs, and control signals go
    in and out of the customer's network. No data from the workload clusters is ever accessed by the
    CDP Control Plane. 
To operate at the highest level of security, Cloudera recommends running CDP
    workload clusters in private subnets. This means that nodes in the workload clusters do not have
    public IP addresses and all outbound traffic to the internet goes through a gateway or a
    firewall. This allows your security operations team to ensure that hosts that are allowed to
    communicate with the clusters are legitimate and pose no security threat to the assets. A common
    best practice is to avoid inbound connections of any sort directly into the workload subnet. 
Cloudera recommends that no inbound connections be allowed into the private network
    and that you use your sec-ops approved method(s) to provide outbound access to the list of hosts
    specified in the AWS
Azure
GCP outbound network access destinations.

Communication between CDP and workload subnets 
Customers use CDP Management Console to operate and manage workload clusters running
    in their own VPCs. For every operation performed through the Management Console on the workload
    clusters, a control signal is sent to the hosts in the private network. This is achieved through
    a feature called Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM). 
CCM eliminates the need to configure inbound connections into your secure private
    network. CCM, which is set up during cluster creation, configures a reverse tunnel from the
    customer’s private network to the CDP Control Plane. All control signals to create/delete
    clusters, stop/start environments and other management actions related to workload clusters go
    through the CCM tunnel. CCM allows customers to avoid configuring any inbound connections/routes
    to their private workload subnets, thus providing a better security posture for their public
    cloud assets. 
More information on CCM is available in the Cluster Connectivity Manager documentation. 

Egress network setup for better control and visibility on outbound traffic
Large security-conscious enterprises typically inspect all traffic going in and out
    of their private networks. This is generally achieved in the following way:


Identify a single egress virtual network that is used to provide internet access
      to all other subnets and virtual networks. Route outbound (Internet) traffic from all other
      subnets to this egress network.


Purpose-built technologies, such as web proxies, next-generation firewalls and
      cloud access security brokers are deployed in the egress VPC to monitor for anomalous outbound
      behavior. Network analyzers and forensic recorders can also be used.


Cloudera recommends a similar topology to configure outbound traffic rules that are
    needed for normal operation of the clusters in a private network. The alternative is to set up
    egress rules within the same VPC that hosts the private subnet. 

Information exchanged between CDP and workload subnets
Irrespective of the security posture used by the customer to secure their assets in
    the workload subnet, a minimum set of communications is needed for normal operations of a CDP
    environment. The following set of points summarize the data exchanged between CDP Control Plane
    and workload subnets:


All user actions on the CDP Control Plane that are related to interacting with the
      workload clusters in the workload subnets happen via CCM. 


Metering and billing information is sent at regular intervals from the customer’s
      workload subnet to the Cloudera Databus as specified in the AWS
Azure
GCP outbound network access destinations.


If used, an optional component called Cloudera Observability also leverages the
      Cloudera Databus to communicate with the Control Plane. 


Diagnostic bundles for troubleshooting are generally sent by customers to engage
      in support cases. The diagnostic bundles can either be sent on demand or on a scheduled basis
      to Cloudera Customer Support. This feature also uses the Cloudera Databus channel. Refer to
       Sending Usage and Diagnostic Data to Cloudera page to
      read more about diagnostic bundles.


Customers generally share logs with Customer Support in a self-service fashion
      through CDP Control Plane. No customer data is ever shared in the diagnostics bundle. To
      ensure sensitive data does not show up inadvertently in the logs, we recommend that customers
      follow the directions specified in Redaction of Sensitive Information from Diagnostic
       Bundles.




