Secure inbound communicationCloudera Docs
Secure inbound communication
The CDP Control Plane
    communicates
    with workload environments for various command and control purposes. These connections currently
    go over the Internet to the workload environment hosts. Consequently, CDP deploys workloads into
    public (Internet routable) subnets.
To operate in public subnets, CDP secures inbound communication to the listening ports using
      TLS encryption. Connections are authenticated using environment or cluster-specific
      credentials that CDP manages internally. As appropriate, administrators can further secure
      listening ports by authenticating IP addresses and ports:

Identifying authentic connections: Use security group rules to ensure inbound
        connections originate from the set of stable IP addresses that belong to your
        organization.
Identifying authentic ports: Inbound connections take place on an identifiable set
        of ports, which can be used to additionally narrow the allowlist.

In addition to the CDP management traffic, your organization's use cases may specify 
       connecting to the workload hosts over the Internet. These communications may involve 
       different endpoints, protocols, ports, and credentials than CDP management traffic.
Endpoints fall into four categories today, associated with our shared Environment 
     services on the Data Lake and on Data Hub, Data Warehouse, and Machine Learning workloads. 
     The following sections enumerate the communications for each of those categories.
Data Lake communication endpoints
Inbound communication for shared services support CDP management of FreeIPA and Data Lake
        services.
Each Environment contains a deployment of FreeIPA and a Data Lake cluster 
         that support the following security and governance activities:

Free IPA identity and security services


LDAP: User Directory
Kerberos KDC: Manages a Kerberos Realm for the
                      Environment
DNS: Provides internal resolution of workload
                hostnames
Certificate Authority: Issues TLS certificates for internal use, and for the
                inbound CDP control connections


Data Lake cluster services


Hive Metastore: Tabular metadata storage
Ranger: Security policies and audit trail
Atlas: Data lineage, tagging, analytics
ID Broker: Mapping of CDP identities to cloud
                  provider identities
Knox: A proxy gateway for access to cluster
                  services
Cloudera Manager: Local management for the data
                  lake services




Communication to the CDP Control Plane includes the following:

Free IPA identity and security services



User and Group synchronization


Service Principal management


Retrieving the CA root certificate



Data Lake cluster services


Core lifecycle management operations (sent directly between CDP
                and Cloudera Manager to include the Knox proxy as one of the
                managed entities; shown as a dashed line in the picture)
Communication (via Knox proxy)
                  
General Cloudera Manager operations
Ranger operations to manage repositories for
                        workloads
ID Broker mappings (updated via Cloudera
                        Manager)
Data Catalog communicates with Atlas and
                        Ranger to surface information
                    






Data Hub communication endpoints
Data Hub clusters are built on the same underlying technology as the Data Lake 
       cluster and so present a similar connectivity profile.

Communication to the CDP Control Plane includes the following:

Free IPA identity and security services



User and Group synchronization


Service Principal management


Retrieving the CA root certificate



Data Lake cluster services


Core lifecycle management operations (sent directly between CDP and Cloudera 
               Manager because the Knox proxy is one of the managed entities; shown as a dashed 
               line in the previous picture)
             
Communication (via Knox proxy)
               
General Cloudera Manager operations
Service-specific communication depending on the specific
                    DataHub cluster in question






Data Warehouse communication endpoints
The Data Warehouse service operates significantly differently from Data Hub, as it runs on 
       top of a Kubernetes cluster and does not include a Cloudera Manager instance.

Primary command and control communication goes to the Kubernetes API
        server. This endpoint is specific to a particular Kubernetes cluster,
        but it is provisioned by the cloud provider outside of the customer VPC.
        Whether or not it is Internet-facing is independent of the VPC
        configuration. The Data Warehouse service doesn’t make connections to
        endpoints in the cluster.

Machine Learning communication endpoints
In terms of communication, a Machine Learning Workspace looks very similar to a Data 
       Warehouse workspace in that it is also a Kubernetes cluster, although the contents differ.

Primary command and control communication goes to the Kubernetes API
        server. This endpoint is specific to a particular Kubernetes cluster,
        but it is provisioned by the cloud provider outside of the customer VPC.
        Whether or not it is Internet-facing is independent of the VPC
        configuration. The Machine Learning service doesn’t make connections to
        endpoints in the cluster.


