Cloud identity federationCloudera Docs
Cloud identity federation
When accessing cloud storage in CDP, credentials are provided by Knox IDBroker, an
  identity federation solution that exchanges cluster authentication for temporary cloud
  credentials. 
What is IDBroker?
IDBroker is a REST API built as part of Apache Knox’s authentication services. It allows an
    authenticated and authorized user to exchange a set of credentials or a token for cloud vendor
    access tokens. 
IDBroker is automatically configured by Cloudera Manager in CDP deployments, where Knox is
    installed. Cloud roles can be mapped to users or groups that exist in UMS to help control
    authorization.

How IDBroker works
Object store data access permissions are managed within the native cloud provider’s
    authorisation systems, not within CDP. So, when Knox IDBroker considers a particular user, it
    doesn't automatically have credentials for them to access the requested data. IDBroker addresses
    this problem by giving us a way to map UMS users and groups to cloud provider identities (roles)
    with associated permissions. Then, when data access operations happen via a Hadoop storage
    connector (eg: s3a), the connector will connect to IDBroker and ask for short lived access
    credentials which can be passed to the cloud provider when making data access calls. IDBroker
    will use the mappings to decide which credentials to obtain and return.
Knox IDBroker can help bridge the identity gap by requesting short term tokens from the cloud
    provider on behalf of a user that has successfully authenticated with Knox, and who is specified
    as being a part of a group mapped to a role that can access the bucket. 

User and group mapping
IDBroker creates mappings between CDP users and groups (imported from corporate
    LDAP/AD, stored in UMS) and native cloud platform roles (e.g. in AWS: the IAM roles associated
    with policies). The mappings are specified in the Control Plane and synchronised to deployed
    clusters.

IDBroker authentication delegation tokens lifetime
By default, IDBroker authentication delegation tokens, used to request cloud credentials, have
    a lifetime of 7 days. This lifetime can be adjusted by modifying the
     idbroker_knox_token_ttl_ms configuration property.


Parent topic: CDP identity management