FreeIPA identity managementCloudera Docs
FreeIPA identity management
Federating identity management with users/groups maintained in FreeIPA and passwords
    authenticated via SSO to an SAML-compliant identity provider (IDP) provides the necessary
    backbone infrastructure needed for CDP services, without requiring you to expose your on-prem
    identity management system over the network. 
What is FreeIPA?
FreeIPA is an open-source product that combines four identity management capabilities:
LDAP directory: a common user directory so that all services in both the SDX and
            workload clusters can consistently resolve users. 
Kerberos KDC: a single common Kerberos realm so that services can authenticate each
            other, within and between clusters. Kerberos is also used as a user authentication
            mechanism by some services.
DNS server: a relatively simple way to discover and reach shared services in an SDX
            cluster from various workloads. 
Certificate Authority (CA): some services secure communication channels with TLS,
            which means they need certificates. A shared CA allows CDP to establish a common trusted
            root for all connected workloads.


Identity management with FreeIPA
IPA is an identity management framework used to assert who a user is. A subset of users and
        groups are replicated into IPA (and propagated to the nodes via SSSD). Making the users and
        groups available on the nodes with consistent user names enables security policies to be
        migrated from on-prem to the cloud. Users and groups are imported from on-prem and
        principally managed from the Control Plane UMS (User Management System,) with IPA providing
        the backend propagation.

FreeIPA prerequisites
For IPA to work, you must have: 
An AD on-prem or a central LDAP where relationships between users and groups are
            maintained.
A SAML identity provider (e.g., Okta or KeyCloak) that can be leveraged to authenticate
            users and import their groups.


How FreeIPA works
The following diagram illustrates how FreeIPA works:



Parent topic: CDP identity management