Data Lake securityCloudera Docs
Data Lake security
 Data Lake security and governance is managed by a shared set of services referred to
        as a Data Lake cluster. 
Data Lake cluster services
A Data Lake cluster is managed by Cloudera Manager, and includes the
                following services: 

Hive MetaStore (HMS) -- table metadata
Apache Ranger -- fine-grained authorization policies, auditing
Apache Atlas -- metadata management and governance: lineage,
                    analytics, attributes
Apache Knox: 

Authenticating Proxy for Web UIs and HTTP APIs -- SSO
IDBroker -- identity federation; cloud credentials



Currently there is one Data Lake cluster for each CDP environment. Security
                in all DataHub clusters created in a Data Lake is managed by these shared security
                and governance services. 
Links to the Atlas and Ranger web UIs are provided on each DataLake home
                page. A link to the Data Lake cluster Cloudera Manager instance provides access to
                Data Lake cluster settings. 

Apache Ranger
Apache Ranger manages access control through a user interface that ensures
                consistent policy administration across Data Lake components and DataHub clusters. 
Security administrators can define security policies at the database,
                table, column, and file levels, and can administer permissions for groups or
                individual users. Rules based on dynamic conditions such as time or geolocation can
                also be added to an existing policy rule. Ranger security zones enable you to
                organize service resources into multiple security zones.
Ranger also provides a centralized framework for collecting access audit
                history and reporting data, including filtering on various parameters.note
                    Authorization through Apache Ranger is just one element of a secure production
                    cluster: Cloudera supports Ranger only when it runs on a cluster where Kerberos
                    is enabled to authenticate users.

Apache Knox
The Apache Knox Gateway (“Knox”) is a system to extend the reach of Apache™ Hadoop®
                services to users outside of a Hadoop cluster without reducing Hadoop Security. Knox
                also simplifies Hadoop security for users who access the cluster data and run
                jobs. The Knox Gateway is designed as a reverse proxy.
Establishing user identity with strong authentication is the basis for secure access
                in Hadoop. Users need to reliably identify themselves and then have that identity
                propagated throughout the Hadoop cluster to access cluster resources. 
Knox SSO provides web UI SSO (Single Sign-on) capabilities to Data Lakes
                and associated environments. Knox SSO enables users to log in once and gain access
                to Data Lake and DataHub cluster resources.
Knox IDBroker is an identity federation solution that provides temporary cloud
                credentials in exchange for various tokens or authentication.

Apache Atlas
Apache Atlas provides a set of metadata management and governance services
                that enable you to manage data lake and DataHub cluster assets. 

Search and Proscriptive Lineage – facilitates pre-defined and ad hoc
                    exploration of data and metadata, while maintaining a history of data sources
                    and how specific data was generated.
Ranger plugin for metadata-driven data access control.
Flexible modeling of both business and operational data.
Data Classification – helps you understand the nature of the data
                    within Hadoop and classify it based on external and internal sources.



Related informationData Lakes