July 21, 2022Cloudera Docs
July 21, 2022
Release notes and fixed issues for version 2.0.32.
New Features / Improvements

Garbage collection for deleted projects - This feature allows you to trigger
          cleanup of deleted projects. A separate feature allows older orphaned projects to be
          marked for cleanup. For more information, see Project Garbage Collection.
Disable Runtimes - It is now possible to disable and enable runtimes. For more
          information, see Disabling Runtimes.
Monitoring for Applications - This feature allows you to monitor the technical
          health of deployed Applications, including statistics and visualizations of CPU and memory
          usage. For more information, see Monitoring Applications.
Custom polling endpoints for applications  - This feature allows the application
          creator to define what application endpoint servers poll to detect if the application is
          running, that avoids problems some applications have with polling the root endpoint. For
          more information, see Application polling endpoint.
PBJ Workbench Runtimes (Tech Preview) now work with Sessions, Experiments, Jobs and
            Applications - This feature enables the classic workbench UI backed by the
          open-source Jupyter protocol. This architectural change improves consistency, stability,
          and ease of customization while eliminating the dependency on proprietary CML code.
          For more information, see PBJ Workbench in Preview Features.
Kubernetes - Kubernetes 1.22 is now supported for both AWS and Azure.


Fixed Issues

Job quotas (DSE-12664) - Fixed an issue where subsequent jobs in a job pipeline
          can fail if quota is enabled.
HDFS via Python (DSE-19775) - Fixed an issue where accessing HDFS via Python
          libraries that connect natively to HDFS, such as Tensorflow or PyArrow, may fail due to an
          error that the libhdfs.so file cannot be found.



Parent topic: Older releases