October 27, 2021Cloudera Docs
October 27, 2021
Release notes and fixed issues.
New Features / Improvements

ML Flow - Cloudera Machine Learning now supports experiment tracking using open
          MLflow standards. For more information, see CML Experiment Tracking through MLflow
            (Preview) in Preview Features.
Spark 3 - Users can now use Spark 3 in Sessions, Jobs, Models or Applications in
          their projects configured to use ML Runtimes.
cdswctl - Users can now use the cdswctl CLI client to create Sessions with
          Spark.
Root volume size - On existing CML workspaces based on AWS, there is a known
          issue where the provisioned root volume capacity is not enough to accomodate CML
          deployments with K8s versions >= 1.21. To mitigate this issue, when upgrading existing
          workspaces with a K8s version older than 1.19 on AWS, the root volume size is
          automatically increased/updated to 128 GB. Please note that this is not an issue on Azure
          where the pre-provisioned capacity for workspaces is already 128GB
Workbench Editor - The Workbench now supports wrapping lines in the editor
          window. Users can enable this by selecting the Line Wrapping
            Enabled option under the View menu item in the
          Workbench.
Private AWS clusters - Support for Private AWS clusters is now available in Preview
          mode. With Private AWS cluster support, CML workspaces are provisioned with a Private K8s
          API server making the deployments more secure.
Pre-flight checks - NFS Server pre-flight checks have been added for Azure where
          validations are done to make sure that the specified BYONFS server directory meet the
          following criteria NFS server directory specified should be: 
Reachable
Mountable
The directory must be owned by CML user 8536.
The directory must be empty.



Fixed issues

Atlas (DSE-16706) - Fixed an issue with reporting data lineage of CML model
          deployments to Atlas.



Parent topic: Older releases