October 29, 2020Cloudera Docs
October 29, 2020
Release notes and fixed issues.
New features


Scaling workers on AWS - On AWS, the number of worker nodes can now be scaled to zero
     when the workspace is idle.
Kubernetes - Access to the Kubernetes API server of the ML workspaces can now be
     restricted to certain authorized IP ranges.
ADLS Gen2 - Access to ADLS-Gen2 from CML can now be managed with Ranger
     policies.
Subnets - Subnets used for ML workspaces can now be reviewed in the Workspace Details
     page.
ML workspace upgrade - You can now retry ML workspace upgrade if the previous attempt
     fails.
Deprecated Kubernetes versions - ML workspaces with deprecated Kubernetes versions
     will now be highlighted on the CDP control plane. It is recommended to upgrade your ML
     workspaces with the deprecated Kubernetes versions at the earliest opportunity.
Enable Unauthenticated Access To Applications - Users can now create Analytical
     Applications in CML that can be accessed by unauthenticated users. This functionality can also
     be wholly disabled for an ML workspace by an administrator.
Applications header - CML now supports authentication using REMOTE_USER HTTP header
     for the Applications created on CML.
Audited events - Quota changes and “Download All” files are now audited in the
     user_events table.
Sessions page redesign - The Sessions page has been improved, making it easier to
     take actions such as filtering down to running sessions and performing bulk deletion of old
     sessions.


Fixed issues


DSE-12164 - Fixed a bug where applications may not use the engine image configured
     with the project upon restart.
DSE-12033 - Fixed an issue where the Engine profile on the Job Overview page did not
     update when the profile was changed on the Job Settings page.
DSE-12026 - Grafana deployments now include 8536 in the supplemental groups
     list.
DSE-11988 - Fixed a UI issue when creating a new session, where the user had to
     delete Untitled Session before typing in the session name.
DSE-11945 - Fixed an issue where a poor network connection could cause an “Engine
     Exited” error message.
DSE-11911 - Fixed an issue where updating the Project name caused navigation to other
     tabs to fail.
DSE-11891 - Fixed an issue where attempting to open a file with Chinese characters in
     the name fails.
DSE-10408 - Fixed an issue where quota checks may cause sessions or jobs to
     fail.



Parent topic: Older releases