August 04, 2020Cloudera Docs
August 04, 2020
Release notes and fixed issues
New features


Session Start UX - Sessions start page is now displayed with a fresh design.
Engine Schedule - Improve the page loading performance for the “Lag” view of the Site
     Administration Activity tab.
Subnet Selection - Subnets (one per workspace on Azure, multiple subnets per
     workspace on Amazon) can now be, optionally, manually selected when creating a new
     workspace.
Model Metrics Development Workflow - You can develop and test model functions that
     track model metrics in a workbench session without actually deploying the model. This method
     makes it easy for you to develop and test code that tracks metrics and the code which consumes
     the tracked metrics without having to rebuild and redeploy a model to test every change.
Default Model API Key Expiration - Administrators can now set a default expiration
     for Model API keys. If the user sets a longer expiration date, an error is returned. The
     default expiration duration is set at Admin > Security > Default Model API keys expiration in days.


Fixed issues


DSE-11770 - Fixed an issue where the SHM size configuration was not applied for
     sessions started via cdswctl.
DSE-11436 - Fixed an issue where SSH connections to CML terminal via the
      cdswctl ssh-endpoint command may time out after a few minutes.
DSE-11321 - Fixed an issue where uploading files that have Chinese characters in the
     file names may fail.
DSE-11089 - Fixed an issue where accessing Applications in the browser directly
     results in a 401 error and a blank page. Now users are redirected to a login page, and then
     directed back to the Application after successful authentication.
DSE-10977 - Fixed an issue where the Remote Editing link on the Teams page may
     display a 500 error.
DSE-10784 - Fixed an issue where Applications hosted on CML may be stopped after 7
     days.
DSE-10616 - Fixed an issue where the Jobs dependency pipeline only shows the first
     job.
DSE-10031 - Fixed an issue where Windows line endings were converted automatically to
     Linux line endings in the Workbench. This behavior is now configurable.
DSE-9986 - Fixed an issue so that users cannot create public projects via API when
     public project creation is restricted.
DSE-8698 - Fixed redirections for CDSW links when TLS is enabled.
DSE-6068 - Fixed an issue where sessions, jobs. experiments, and models may fail to
     be created if the engine tag includes an underscore character.



Parent topic: Older releases