November 29, 2022Cloudera Docs
November 29, 2022
Release notes and fixed issues for version 2.0.34.
New Features / Improvements

Suspend/Resume Workspace - Administrators can optimize cloud costs by suspending
          CML Workspaces for weekends and resume operation for business hours. See Suspend and resume ML workspaces for details.
PBJ Runtimes - PBJ Workbench Runtimes are now GA, providing a
          more consistent experience with the Jupyter ecosystem. With the elimination of proprietary
          code you can now build a new Runtime from scratch, on your custom base image with your
          selected kernel, with no need to build on top of a Cloudera image anymore.
Experiment tracking - A new Experiments feature built on MLFlow is
          now available. You can now track your experiments in CML sessions with the preinstalled
            mlflow library and visualize and compare them in the CML application.
          This feature is enabled by default.
Customizable Scratch Space - You can now configure the amount of 
          ephemeral
          storage space (also known as scratch space) a CML session, job, application or model can
          use. This feature helps in better scheduling of CML pods, and provides a safety valve to
          ensure runaway computations do not consume all available scratch space on the node. By
          default, each user pod in CML is allowed to use up to 10 GB of scratch space.
Iceberg support - Iceberg v2 is supported via Spark Runtime Addon, based on the
          CDE 1.17-h1 Runtime Addon version.
Jobs UI - The Jobs List page and Job Details page now display the job
            ID and Created At time.
Projects UI - When you select a runtime kernel on the project creation page, only
          the latest standard version of the selected kernel is added to the project.
Data tab - The Cloudera Data Visualization application that provides the Data tab
          experience got upgraded to v7.0.2. You can review the changes 
          here.
Applications - Custom polling endpoints for Applications can now be specified in
          the UI.
Register new runtimes via APIv2 - Site administrators can register new ML
          Runtimes using the APIv2.
Runtime addon management - Site administrators can now also disable or deprecate
          specific Runtime Addons.
Environmental variables - The new project environmental variable
            PROJECT_OWNER holds the username of the project owner.


Fixed Issues

Python packages (DSE-21313) - Fixed an issue where Python packages installed via
            pip install may not be imported correctly until a new session is
          started.
Jobs (DSE-21771) - Fixed an issue where Jobs scheduled with PBJ Runtimes may
          terminate with a Success state even when there were errors reported in job
          runs.
PBJ Runtimes (DSE-19971) - Fixed an issue where comment blocks may not be
          rendered correctly in sessions or jobs launched with PBJ Runtimes.
Models (DSE-22527) - Fixed an issue where the Model Monitoring Chart was
          displaying data from other projects or deployments.



Parent topic: Older releases