Lineage lifecycleCloudera Docs
Lineage lifecycle
Tables are dropped, schemas change, views are created: lineage
    tracks these changes over time.
Atlas reads the content of the metadata it collects to build
          relationships among data assets. When Atlas receives query
          information, it notes the input and output of the query at the column
          level: Atlas generates a lineage map that traces how data is used and
          transformed over time. This visualization of data transformations
          allows governance teams to quickly identify the source of data and to
          understand the impact of data changes.
Atlas processes contain lineage info;
          data assets by themselves do not. Impala queries are represented as
          processes and have lineage
          information; the data asset affected by Impala queries appear as Hive
          entities.
HDFS, S3, ADLS files appear when they are referenced by Hive, Impala, or
      Spark queries; operations that occur on the file system are not reflected
      in Atlas lineage.
The
          contents of a lineage graph are determined by what metadata is
          collected from services. If a process refers to a data asset but Atlas
          doesn't have an entity for that data asset, Atlas isn’t able to create
          an entity for the process and the lineage defined by that process
          won’t appear in Atlas. 
    
Deleted data assets
Entities that represent data assets that have been deleted (such as after
      a DROP TABLE command in Hive) are marked as deleted. They show up in
      search results only if the checkbox to Show historical
        entities is checked. Deleted entities appear in lineage
      graph dimmed-out.
Historical entities are never automatically removed or archived from Atlas' metadata. If you
      find a need to remove specific deleted entities, you can purge specific entities by their
      GUIDs through REST API calls.
Temporary data assets
Sometimes operations include data assets that are
          created and then deleted as part of the operation (or as part of a
          series of operations that occur close together in time). Atlas
          collects metadata for these temporary objects. The technical metadata
          for the operation, such as query text, includes a reference to the
          temporary object; the object itself will show in the Atlas lineage
          diagrams.
For example, consider a Hive pipeline that
          writes data to a table, transforms the data and writes it to a second
          table, then removes the first table. The lineage graph shows the
          source file, the process that creates the first table, the first
          table, the process that transforms the data and loads it into the
          second table, and the second table. Atlas also collects the process
          where the first table is dropped. When you view the lineage graph, you
          can choose to show the first table or to exclude it by setting the
          filter option Hide Deleted Entity. 

