HDFS lineage data extraction in AtlasCloudera Docs
HDFS lineage data extraction in Atlas
Atlas supports the HDFS lineage data extraction mechanism. Learn how it works, which
        HDFS shell script commands are supported, how to use these commands, and what the supported
        HDFS entities and hierarchies are.
Previously, HDFS data extraction ensured that only partial data was captured.
            Data stewards and platform owners track lineage of their ingest and ETL processes that
            depend on custom programs that convert copy and convert data when moving from one
            directory in HDFS to another.
The data descends into a staging directory in HDFS and later,
            periodically moves to an input directory in HDFS. Hive External tables are
            constructed on top of the input directory and Atlas does not support capturing HDFS
            locations without the Hive External table being created on top of the HDFS location(s).
            Typically, the move from staging to input directory is captured in Atlas lineage. The
            connectivity between staging and input directories does not generate the lineage
            automatically. 
With the enhancement, lineage would automatically be captured and connected for
            the data ingest processes. This development allows the data architect and data steward
            to understand and govern data from ingest, ETL to consumption.
How HDFS lineage extraction works
The enhanced implementation consists of a wrapper, which is based around
                the HDFS commands that creates a new lineage for filesystem operations. 
The lineage captures the directory / file specified in the scripting tool.
                The lineage also creates a parent-child relationship of directories / files and its
                contents upto the NameNode.
A filtering mechanism is also built to exclude or include paths and
                directories. 
Currently, the following HDFS shell script commands are supported:

-put and -copyFromLocal - Copy the
                    contents from the local machine into HDFS.
-cp - Copies the contents from one path to another
                    HDFS path.
-mv - Moves the contents from one path to another
                    HDFS path.
-rm - Removes the contents from HDFS.



Related informationHDFS lineage commandsPrerequisites for HDFS lineage extractionBefore you start the extraction mechanism ensure you review the activities that need         to be performed in Cloudera Manager.HDFS lineage commandsYou must run the following commands to complete the HDFS lineage extraction into         Atlas.Inclusion and exclusion operation for HDFS filesThe content or the files available in HDFS are either captured or ignored as lineage         in Atlas. This scenario is achieved by including and excluding files and folders that Atlas         checks for creating a lineage.Supported HDFS entities and their hierarchiesWhen you perform basic search with the sub-type "hdfs_path" through         Atlas UI or API, the search results include other HDFS types like             "hdfs_path_v2", "hdfs_path_namenode", and other         related entities.