Understanding, identifying, and addressing problems with Cloudera ObservabilityCloudera Docs
Understanding, identifying, and addressing problems with Cloudera Observability
Learn the tasks that help you analyze, identify and troubleshoot job and query
    abnormalities and failures, optimize workloads, and improve job performance with Cloudera Observability.
Logging in to Cloudera ObservabilityLearn how to access the Cloudera Observability web user interface to start viewing         your diagnostic data for analysis.Specifying a time rangeEnable a more in-depth analysis about your costs and workloads by displaying current         or historical data for a specific time period. Analyzing your tablesMinimize costs and maximize query performance by gaining more insights into your tables,     including which tables are frequently or infrequently accessed, with the Cloudera Observability     Metastore Analytics feature. By understanding your tables and their metadata, such as a table’s     volume or how often a query accesses a table, helps you troubleshoot, make informed decisions     about your data and data storage, and ensures that your table data is in accordance with your     Storage Policy.Understanding Validations in Cloudera ObservabilityLearn about Cloudera Support’s Validations predictive alerting tool whose alerts are     displayed in the Cloudera Observability web UI. The Validations feature identifies problems     within your environment arising from your support bundles and automatically displays an alert     when an issue appears and/or when conditions are not met, including details about the problem     and recommended solutions that enable you to take corrective action before a more serious issue     arises. Analyzing your Hive queries for debugging and optimizationIdentify operational, performance, and health issues of your Hive workloads, queries,   and cluster. The following topics, guide you through the Cloudera Observability Hive features that   enable you to identify and troubleshoot performance and health issues. Troubleshooting an abnormal job durationYou can identify areas of risk from jobs running on your workload cluster that         complete within an unusual time period, using Cloudera Observability.Troubleshooting failed jobsYou can identify and troubleshoot incomplete jobs on your cluster using Cloudera Observability. Determining the cause of slow and failed queriesYou can identify the cause of slow query run times and queries that fail to complete         using Cloudera Observability.Troubleshooting with the Job Comparison FeatureYou can compare two different runs of the same job, which is especially useful when         you notice unexpected changes, such as when you have a job that consistently completes         within a specific amount of time and then it starts taking longer. Comparing two runs of the         same job enables you to analyze the performance and differences so that you can troubleshoot         the cause.