Assigning uncategorized resources to a cost centerCloudera Docs
Assigning uncategorized resources to a cost center
Unassigned resource costs are included in the total cost of all your cost centers.
        They represent user and pool costs that have not been assigned to a cost center. Learn how
        to move unassigned resource costs into an existing or a new Cloudera Observability cost
        center. 
Steps on how to locate and move unassigned resource costs into an existing or a new
                Cloudera Observability cost center. importantTo
                avoid cost duplication, resources must only be assigned one cost
                center.noteOnly users with the
                    ObservabilityAccountAdmin access role type can define the
                Chargeback settings, list, create, update, or delete cost centers, and view all the
                Chargeback related dashboards.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Cloudera Observability Main navigation panel, select
                        Financial Governance. 
The Chargeback page opens.

Scroll down and select Uncategorized. 
The Uncategorized page opens.

Select the uncategorised usage criteria tab that is associated with your cost
                    center settings.

Depending on the Chargeback usage criterion option you selected when you
                    configured your Chargeback settings, from the Pools or
                        Users page, select the check boxes of the
                    uncategorized resources you require for your cost center. 

noteUsers and Pools may contain multiple instances of
                        the same name, for example an admin user. In this case,
                        select the name that is associated with the environment you require for your
                        cost center.

The Assign Cost Center dialog box opens.

Do one of the following:


To add the unassigned resource costs in a new cost center, do the
                                following:
From the Select Cost Center list, select
                                        New Cost Center.The Create a Cost
                                        Center page opens displaying the Cost Center
                                            details settings.
In the Name field, enter a unique name
                                    for the cost center. 
In the Description
                                    field, enter a meaningful description for the cost center.
Click Create.
The CDP Chargeback page opens displaying a
                                    Success message, which denotes that the
                                cost center was successfully created. Your new cost center is listed
                                under the Cost Centers column and the
                                Uncategorized page no longer displays the unassigned resource costs.
                            
To add the unassigned resource costs in an existing cost center, do the
                                following:
From the Select Cost Center list, select
                                    the existing cost center that you require.
Click Assign to Cost Center.
The CDP Chargeback page opens displaying a
                                    Success message, which denotes that the
                                unassigned costs were moved into the selected cost center, and the
                                Uncategorized page no longer displays the unassigned resource costs.
                            


Optional: 
Repeat steps 4 through 6 until all your uncategorized resources are placed in
                    your Cloudera Observability cost centers.


Parent topic: Analyzing your environment costs with Cloudera Observability