Defining workload views manuallyCloudera Docs
Defining workload views manually
Steps for manually defining your workload views.
This task describes how to manually define your Workload
            Views. noteWorkload Views are available for Classic Cluster,
                Private Cloud Base, Data Hub, Virtual Cluster, and Virtual Warehouse Cloudera Observability environments only.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI and that you
                    selected an environment from the Analytics
Environments page.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens to the main navigation
                            panel.


From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, select the environment required
                            for analysis.

tipYou can reduce the number of
                                environments by selecting your environment's type from the
                                    Environments list.
The Environment navigation panel opens.




Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster required
                    as a workload view. 
To display the Cluster
                        Summary page for a Data Hub, Virtual Cluster, and Virtual
                    Warehouse environment type, do one of the following:
From the Environment panel, expand the service's category and depending
                            on the service, locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual
                            Cluster, or Virtual Warehouse that is required for analysis.
In the Data Services table, drill-down through the service links to
                            locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual Cluster, or Virtual
                            Warehouse that is required for analysis.


tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.


Select the Workloads tab.

In the Workloads page, click Manual:





The Define Workload View widget opens, where you define
                    a set of criteria that enables you to analyze a specific set of queries. 
For example, as shown in the image below, you can list the total amount of
                    failed queries, as a percentage, from a specific engine that are subject to a
                    two second SLA. 
Where, as defined by the criteria condition, Cloudera Observability will
                    monitor all query jobs from the Impala engine. When the
                    total query execution time exceeds 2 seconds, as defined by the SLA condition,
                    for 90 percent of these queries, as defined by the Warning Threshold, the
                    workload is flagged with a failed state: 


Optional: 
To display a summary of the queries matching your criteria, click
                        Preview. The date range, the number of queries that
                    match the criteria, and the number of queries that missed the SLA condition are
                    displayed.

Click Save.
The Workloads page opens and your workload view appears in the
                        Workload column.



tipTo locate your new workload view from a
                        long list, sort the Workload column alphabetically in
                        either the ascending or descending order by clicking the Workload column's
                        up and down arrows.

Optional: 
To view more information about the workloads using the view's formula, open its
                    Summary page by clicking the name of the workload view in the
                        Workload column, which displays the view's details as
                    chart widgets that you can use to further analyze the results.

To create a new view do the following:


Verify that the Cluster Summary page is displayed
                            for the environment's cluster required as a workload view.
To display the Cluster
                                Summary page for a Data Hub, Virtual Cluster, and Virtual
                            Warehouse environment type, do one of the following:
From the Environment panel, expand the service's category and
                                    depending on the service, locate and select the Data Hub's
                                    cluster, Virtual Cluster, or Virtual Warehouse that is required
                                    for analysis.
In the Data Services table, drill-down through the service links
                                    to locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual Cluster, or
                                    Virtual Warehouse that is required for analysis.


tipThe page's title is displayed in
                                the browser tab.



Select the Workloads tab.


From the Define New menu in the Workloads page,
                            select one of the following:


To create a new manual view, select Manually define
                                        view, in the Define Workload
                                        View widget define a set of criteria for the
                                    view, and then click save.
To automatically generate a new view, select Select
                                        recommended views.

The Workloads page reopens and your workload view appears in the
                                    Workload column.





Parent topic: Classifying workloads for analysis with Workload Views