Assigning access roles in Cloudera ObservabilityCloudera Docs
Assigning access roles in Cloudera Observability
Steps for assigning resource access roles in Cloudera Observability that restrict
        access to your workload clusters, jobs, and queries.
Describes how to assign resource access roles to a Cloudera Observability user. The
                Cloudera Observability Manage Access feature enables you to assign a user to a Cloudera Observability access role that is associated with one or multiple workload
            clusters, jobs, and queries.noteOnly Account administrator users
                can assign Cloudera Observability resource access roles.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, locate the environment that contains the
                    workload to which you will assign a Cloudera Observability user resource access
                    role.

tipYou can reduce the number of environments
                        by selecting your environment's type from the
                            Environments list.


From the environment's Actions list, select
                        Manage Access.
The Manage Access page opens.






In the search field, enter and then select the name of the user to which you
                    will assign a Cloudera Observability user resource access role.
The Update Resource Roles for nameofuser dialog box opens,
                    which lists the user resource access role options that you can assign to the
                    user for Cloudera Observability.

Select the check box next to the resource role you require for the user. 
In this example, the ObservabilityLimitedClusterUser role check box is
                    selected, which gives the user limited access to the environment, but provides
                    access and visibility to their workloads. 



Click Update Roles.
A Success message appears confirming that the resource
                    roles for the user are updated and the name of the user is populated in the
                        Name column of the Manage Access table.

In the breadcrumb row, click the name of the environment.
The Environment Summary page opens. tipYou
                        can navigate between pages in the Cloudera Observability web UI using the
                        breadcrumb row.

Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster or
                    Virtual Warehouse. 
To display the Cluster
                        Summary page for a Data Hub, Virtual Cluster, and Virtual
                    Warehouse environment type, do one of the following:
From the Environment panel, expand the service's category and depending
                            on the service, locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual
                            Cluster, or Virtual Warehouse.
In the Data Services table, drill-down through the service links to
                            locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual Cluster, or Virtual
                            Warehouse.


tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.


In the Cluster Summary page, select the
                        Workloads tab.
The Workloads page opens.

In the Workloads page, locate the workload that is to be
                    assigned to the user of the user resource access role, in this case the
                    ObservabilityLimitedClusterUser, and then from its
                        Actions list, select Manage
                        Access.
The Manager Access page opens.



In the search field, enter and then select the name of the user with the
                    assigned user resource access role.
The Update Resource Roles for nameofuser dialog box opens,
                    which displays the workload role option that is associated with the user
                    resource access role.

Select the check box next to the resource role, in this case the
                    ObservabilityWorkloadUser role, which gives the user limited access to the
                    workload, but provides access and visibility to their workloads. 






Click Update Roles.
A Success message appears confirming that the resource
                    roles for the user are updated.The user is now limited to viewing only those
                        workload jobs and queries associated with the workload cluster that they
                        were assigned.
Optional: 
To verify which Cloudera Observability user resource and workload roles are
                    assigned to a user, do the following:


In the Manage Access page, locate and click the name of the user whose
                            roles you require for verification.
To access the Manage
                                Access page, do the following:
From the cluster's or Virtual Warehouse's
                                        Workloads page, locate the workload
                                    that is assigned to the user whose user resource and workload
                                    roles require verification.
From its Actions list, select
                                        Manage Access.The Manage Access
                                        page opens.

The user's profile page opens. 


Scroll down and select the Resources tab.
The resources, the resource type, and the roles that are assigned to
                            the user are displayed.




Parent topic: Managing user access to workloads