Specifying a time rangeCloudera Docs
Specifying a time range
Enable a more in-depth analysis about your costs and workloads by displaying current
        or historical data for a specific time period. 
Describes how to change the currently displayed time
            period from the time-range list, which appears on the
                Cluster Summary, Engine Summary, and
                Workload Summary pages. By default, Cloudera Observability
                displays workload data for the last 24 hours. If there is no data available during
                that time, Cloudera Observability displays the nearest date range that is
                    available.noteThe time-range list converts universal
                    time to the user's local timezone.The following steps describe,
                with examples, how to change the time period from the Cluster
                    Summary page.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI and that you
                    selected an environment from the Analytics
Environments page.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens to the main navigation
                            panel.


From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, select the environment required
                            for analysis.

tipYou can reduce the number of
                                environments by selecting your environment's type from the
                                    Environments list.
The Environment navigation panel opens.




Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster required
                    for analysis. 
To display the Cluster
                        Summary page for a Data Lake, Database Catalog, Data Engineering,
                    and Data Hub environment type, do one of the following:
From the Environment panel, expand the service's category and depending
                            on the service, locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, the Data
                            Engineering's Virtual Cluster, or the Data Warehouse's Virtual Warehouse
                            that is required for analysis.
In the Data Services table, drill-down through the service links to
                            locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, the Data Engineering's Virtual
                            Cluster, or the Data Warehouse's Virtual Warehouse that is required for
                            analysis.


tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.


From the time-range list, do one of the following:

For a predefined period, select one of the default periods of time that
                        meets your requirements.
For an exact date and time range, select
                            Customize and then either, enter the date and
                        time range using the YYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS format for the beginning and the
                        ending time period, or in the calendar element, select the beginning and
                        ending time period.

The following example shows the time-range list on cluster, Virtual Warehouse,
                    and engine pages:Figure 1. Analytics time-range list



Click Ok, which clears any existing workload data from
                    the chart and table components and updates your workload data for the chosen
                    time period.

All charts and tables in Cloudera Observability are updated
            to reflect the workload data for the chosen time period.noteThe
                time-range list is also available on the Financial Governance Chargeback pages for
                historical analysis, as shown in the following example:Figure 2. Financial Governance time-range list



Parent topic: Understanding, identifying, and addressing problems with Cloudera Observability