Triggering action alerts across jobs and queriesCloudera Docs
Triggering action alerts across jobs and queries
You can trigger action alerts, that are defined by you, across your workload
    applications, jobs, and queries whilst they are running with the Cloudera Observability Auto
    Actions feature. When a workload application, job, or query matches the action's defined
    threshold value, the auto action event is triggered. For example, you may have a scenario where
    too much memory is being allocated to specific jobs and you would like to take an action before
    a problem occurs, such as avoiding memory exhaustion. In this case, you can create an auto
    action that triggers a notification alert when a job is identified as having an over-allocation
    of memory. You can then either manually take steps to alleviate the problem or include the
      Kill action option that stops the job in question. 
importantBefore you can use the Auto Actions feature you
      must set the required auto actions configuration properties in Telemetry Publisher. For
      information on how to enable the Telemetry Publisher Auto Actions property settings, click the
        Related Information link below.
noteAt this time the Auto Actions feature is available for Classic
      Cluster and Private Cloud Base Cloudera Observability environments only.
Considerations and Limitations
The following describes consideration decisions and limitations when using Auto Actions:
Terminating a workload application, job, or query could impact other workloads. Especially
            when another workload is dependent on the results of the terminated workload
            application, job, or query. Before triggering a Kill type action,
            Cloudera recommends using the Notification only action alert
            until you have verified that no issues will arise.
By default, the Cloudera Observability UI limits the amount of displayed audit events to
            500 and sorts them in ascending order (newest time stamp first). To display older audit
            events, change the date range duration and/or the time range duration from the
            time-range list on the Auto Actions Events page.
Too Fast To Collect: The minimum polling interval is
              one minute. If you have jobs or queries that overlap or start
            before the minimum polling interval is completed there may not be enough time for Cloudera Observability to evaluate your auto action’s definition. For example, if Cloudera Observability starts polling at 1:00:00 PM and polling finishes by 1:00:10 PM
              (10 seconds) and then a job starts at 1:00:12 PM and finishes before 1:01:00 PM, there
              is not enough of a time lapse for Cloudera Observability to evaluate and trigger your
              action alert.
Too Fast to Kill: Under normal conditions the evaluation and
            invocation phases of an auto action is within the span of one
            minute. If you have jobs or queries whose run time is less than one minute, Cloudera Observability may complete the evaluation phase but not have time to complete the
            invocation phase, such as terminating the job. Depending on the context of your auto
            action, this may or may not be an issue. But if, for example, you have a workload
            cluster that is dedicated for specific jobs and a rogue job is run before the action is
            triggered, then this could be an issue



Related informationEnabling the Auto Actions feature in Telemetry PublisherCreating an auto action eventThe steps to create a Cloudera Observability auto action definition, which is         triggered when a workload application, job, or query matches the auto action’s definition         threshold. For example, when a job is taking too long to run it may delay other jobs waiting         in the queue. With Auto Actions, you can create an auto action alert that informs you         through an email when a job is exceeding its usual runtime so that you can decide whether to         manually take steps to alleviate the problem or have an auto action that will terminate the         job or query process for you.Events and management details of auto actionsDescribes the fields in the Auto Actions Events and Management pages of Cloudera Observability.Managing your auto actionsDescribes how to update, delete, duplicate, and disable an auto action     event.Auto action email notification examplesExamples of a Cloudera Observability Auto Actions alert notification email.Parent topic: Working with alerts, costs, and reports