Automatically generate workload viewsCloudera Docs
Automatically generate workload views
If you have not defined workload views you have an option to generate default views
        by selecting a set of
        criteria.
Describes how to generate the  Cloudera Observability default views. noteWorkload Views are available for Classic Cluster, Private
                Cloud Base, Data Hub, Virtual Cluster, and Virtual Warehouse Cloudera Observability
                environments
            only.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI and that you
                    selected an environment from the Analytics
Environments page.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens to the main navigation
                            panel.


From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, select the environment required
                            for analysis.

tipYou can reduce the number of
                                environments by selecting your environment's type from the
                                    Environments list.
The Environment navigation panel opens.




Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster required
                    as a workload view. 
To display the Cluster
                        Summary page for a Data Hub, Virtual Cluster, and Virtual
                    Warehouse environment type, do one of the following:
From the Environment panel, expand the service's category and depending
                            on the service, locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual
                            Cluster, or Virtual Warehouse that is required for analysis.
In the Data Services table, drill-down through the service links to
                            locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual Cluster, or Virtual
                            Warehouse that is required for analysis.


tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.


Select the Workloads tab.

In the Workloads page, click Auto-generate:






From the Criteria column, examine the criteria that is
                    used for each workload view, select the required workload views, and then click
                        Add Selected:





The workload views you selected are saved and displayed on the Workloads
                    page.

To verify your workload views, on the Workloads page, locate the workload view
                    you added. When verified, click the workload to view its details:





Optional: 
To view more information about the workload, open its Summary page by clicking
                    the name of the workload view in the Workload column,
                    which displays the view's details as chart widgets that you can use to further
                    analyze the results.

To create a new view do the following:


Verify that the Cluster Summary page is displayed
                            for the environment's cluster required as a workload view.
To display the Cluster
                                Summary page for a Data Hub, Virtual Cluster, and Virtual
                            Warehouse environment type, do one of the following:
From the Environment panel, expand the service's category and
                                    depending on the service, locate and select the Data Hub's
                                    cluster, Virtual Cluster, or Virtual Warehouse that is required
                                    for analysis.
In the Data Services table, drill-down through the service links
                                    to locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, Virtual Cluster, or
                                    Virtual Warehouse that is required for analysis.


tipThe page's title is displayed in
                                the browser tab.



Select the Workloads tab.


From the Define New menu in the Workloads page,
                            select one of the following:


To create a new manual view, select Manually define
                                        view, in the Define Workload
                                        View widget define a set of criteria for the
                                    view, and then click save.
To automatically generate a new view, select Select
                                        recommended views.

The Workloads page reopens and your workload view appears in the
                                    Workload column.





Parent topic: Classifying workloads for analysis with Workload Views