Analyzing your environment costs with Cloudera ObservabilityCloudera Docs
Analyzing your environment costs with Cloudera Observability
The Cloudera Observability Financial Governance Chargeback feature collects CPU,
    memory, and resource usage data from your environment, allocates those charges to your custom
    cost centers, and visually displays the results. It provides an in-depth visibility into the
    workload resource costs of your environment’s infrastructure that can be used for planning,
    budgeting, and
    forecasting.
noteOnly users with the ObservabilityAccountAdmin
      access role type can define the Chargeback settings, list, create, update, or delete cost
      centers, and view all the Chargeback related dashboards. For more information about the Cloudera Observability access roles, click the Related Information link
      below.
About the Cloudera Observability Chargeback feature
The Cloudera Observability Financial Governance Chargeback feature measures and records the
        costs of your workload resources and allocates them to the users who consume them. For
        resources that are shared, such as multi-tenant clusters that are shared between different
        organizations and departments, it also enables you to measure and record those shared costs
        and charge those users based on their actual consumption. This feature helps you plan and
        forecast budgets, it helps you ensure that costs are in line with business requirements and
        the Chargeback cost center reports can be used to raise cost awareness and set limits to
        control your overall costs.

About cost centers and their criteria
The Cloudera Observability Financial Governance Chargeback feature calculates cost based on
        the following criteria: 
User or Pool usage, which enables you to separate user and resource pool costs.
CPU and Memory hourly unit costs, which are based on actual CPU and memory usage using
            your internal pricing or cost model. 

Using the Chargeback criteria that you have set, charges for CPU and memory consumption are
        calculated and assigned by Cloudera Observability to a cost center that is created by you.
        Cost centers separate costs across users or pools and track their workload resource
        consumption costs. They can be divided and/or grouped into members associated with an
        organization or group for helping you assign the charges to a user’s department. 
When you create a Cloudera Observability cost center, detailed summary reports of the costs
        and resource usage for the environment are generated. After a job has run, the tracked
        resource costs that is associated with the cost center’s environment, service, or cluster
        are visually displayed. You can drill down for more detailed reports, such as viewing the
        costs incurred by a specific user or pool or viewing the top 5 users or pools whose jobs
        created the highest costs or the top 25 jobs or queries that created the highest costs. 
Overtime, as more jobs and queries are run you can view and compare historical trends by
        selecting specific time periods from the time-range list. By default, data is retained for 6
        months.
The Cloudera Observability Chargeback feature uses usage-based metrics for CPU utilization
        and memory consumption that have an hourly aggregation. 
The Chargeback costs are calculated based on an hourly cost per resource unit, where: 


The CPU costs are expressed as the amount of time a job process uses CPU within an
            hour.
The Memory costs are expressed as an hourly allocation cost per gigabyte.



Considerations and limitations
The following describes consideration and limitations you must know when using the Cloudera Observability Chargeback feature:

Cost centers aggregate the charges, where a cost center can be for one individual
              user, multiple users, or pools. To avoid cost duplication, users and pools must only
              be assigned one cost center.


When viewing the Chargeback reports, the costs are adjusted to a user's local
              timezone. Therefore, total costs, such as daily charges, may differ across timezones.
                noteThe time-range list converts universal time to the
                user's local timezone. 



Assumptions and prerequisites
The Cloudera Observability Chargeback feature assumes the following:
Your organization has an internal pricing or cost model.
You have created Cloudera Observability users or resource pools and assigned them to
            your workloads.



Related informationManaging user access to workloadsConfiguring the Cloudera Observability cost center criteriaThe Cloudera Observability Financial Governance Chargeback feature defines cost         centers based on certain criteria. Configure your Cloudera Observability Chargeback settings         by designating your cost center resource usage across users and pools and defining the unit         resource consumption costs.Creating a Cloudera Observability cost centerThis topic describes the steps for creating a Cloudera Observability cost center.         Cost centers separate costs across user or pool usage and track their workload resource         consumption costs. They can be divided and/or grouped into members associated with a         specific organization or group for helping you assign actual consumption charges to a user’s         department. Assigning uncategorized resources to a cost centerUnassigned resource costs are included in the total cost of all your cost centers.         They represent user and pool costs that have not been assigned to a cost center. Learn how         to move unassigned resource costs into an existing or a new Cloudera Observability cost         center. Displaying your costs associated with a cost centerWhen a Cloudera Observability cost center is created, detailed summary Chargeback         reports of the costs and resource usage for the environment are also generated that enable         you to analyze the costs and the cost break-down associated with the cost center. You can         view the current and historical costs and the resource usage associated with your cost         centers.Parent topic: Working with alerts, costs, and reports