About the Cloudera Observability Hive cluster service metricsCloudera Docs
About the Cloudera Observability Hive cluster service metrics
The Cloudera Observability Hive cluster service metrics are displayed as graphical
  reports that show the state, activity, and performance of your workload Hive service, including
  recommendations on how to resolve a problem. They help you monitor the health, performance, and
  workload usage of your Hive service for identifying and troubleshooting existing and potential
  problems. 
Cloudera Observability collects diagnostic data from a series of health checks that are
   performed on your Hive service. When completed they are compared to their defined thresholds that
   determine if the service is Good, Concerning, or
    Bad and the results are displayed on the Analysis
   page, which is accessed from the Hive engine's Queries page. 
Cloudera Observability helps you distinguish between a healthy and an unhealthy state by
   including a severity level icon adjacent to the health test using the following colors:Table 1. Severity Colors

Severity Color
Description



Green
Good- The health check result is normal and within the
        acceptable range.


Yellow
Concerning- The health check result has exceeded the
         Warning threshold limit and indicates a potential problem, which
        eventually must be resolved but does not have to be completed at this time. See the
         Recommendation actions.


Red
Bad- The health check result has exceeded the
         Critical threshold limit and indicates a serious problem, which must
        be resolved immediately. See the Recommendation actions.


For descriptions of the Hive cluster health checks performed by Cloudera Observability, the
   severity conditions and thresholds, and what actions you should consider to resolve a problem,
   click the Related Information link below.
You can also manually build a Hive service chart in the Metrics page,
   without having to leave Cloudera Observability, using the Cloudera Manager service metrics and
   Chart Builder.noteThis feature is intended for Advanced Hive Users and
    requires knowledge of the Cloudera Manager service metrics and the Cloudera Manager’s Chart
    Builder.
For more information about the Cloudera Manager health checks performed on the Hive service,
   click the Related Information link below.

Related informationCloudera Observability Hive Cluster MetricsCloudera Manager MetricsMonitoring your Hive serviceIdentify Hive service problems that may be affecting your Hive workloads, such as         queries that are running slow or that are failing, with the Cloudera Observability Hive         cluster service metrics.Parent topic: Analyzing your Hive queries for debugging and optimization