Identifying inefficient phases of your Hive queriesCloudera Docs
Identifying inefficient phases of your Hive queries
Identify inefficient phases of your Hive queries for query optimization and
        performance tuning, such as viewing the execution phases, the order in which the operations
        are executed, comparing two execution plans, and validating the events
        performed.

Describes how to locate the Cloudera Observability Hive SQL Query Plan and DAG, the
                Hive Query Plan Graph, and the Counters and Configuration panels for identifying and
                troubleshooting inefficient operational phases of your Hive queries. 
noteThe Query Plan and the Query Plan Graph are only available
                for Hive.
noteIf you do not see any of these features and/or metrics,
                verify that Cloudera Manager has been upgraded to the latest version and that
                Telemetry Publisher was restarted.


Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI and that you
                    selected an environment from the Analytics
Environments page.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens to the main navigation
                            panel.


From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, select the environment required
                            for analysis.

tipYou can reduce the number of
                                environments by selecting your environment's type from the
                                    Environments list.
The Environment navigation panel opens.




Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster required
                    for analysis. 
To display the Cluster
                        Summary page, do one of the following:
For Private Cloud Base and Classic Cluster environment type, verify that
                            the Cluster Summary title is displayed in the
                            browser tab.
For Data Hub and Database Catalog environment types, expand its Data
                            Lake category in the Environment's panel and then locate and select the
                            cluster or Virtual Warehouse of interest. 
The Cluster Summary page displays a series of performance trends and
                        metric chart widgets about the processed jobs and queries.

tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.

Optional: 
From the time-range list in the Cluster Summary page, select a time period that
                    meets your requirements.

Locate the Hive query of interest by doing one of the following:


In the Cluster Summary page, locate the Hive Query
                                Trend chart widget, click its Total
                                Queries value, and then from the
                                Job column in the Queries page, locate and
                            click the query of interest.
If not already expanded, from the Environment navigation panel, expand
                            the ENGINES or Virtual Warehouse category and then select the
                                Hive engine. Locate the Slow
                                Queries chart widget and click the query of
                            interest.



From the .../Hive/Queries/ queryname page, select the
                        Execution Details tab.
The execution stages appear, displaying the Query Details Summary
                    panel.

To review the query's execution instructions and logical steps, do the
                    following:


In the stages column, verify that the query and not the DAG is
                            selected.


From the Query Details Summary panel, click
                            Text.



The query's Query Plan panel opens.
The query plan displays the execution statistics in a list of execution
                        stages that include the execution instructions and steps, such as the
                        operations that are performed, the operators that are used, the resources
                        that are allocated, and the stage dependencies. These stages can help you
                        diagnose and improve a query's performance.
noteYou can save the Query Plan as a JSON file to your
                        computer by clicking the download icon .


To visually display a graphical representation of the Query Plan's DAG, which
                    contains individual components that represent each event and the order they are
                    executed, do the following:


In the stages column, verify that the query and not the DAG is
                            selected.


From the Query Details Summary panel, click
                                Graphical.



The query's Query Plan Graph page opens in another tab of your browser.
The Query Plan Graph displays the order of events and the steps and phases of
                        the query. This page enables you to visually inspect where each operation is
                        executed and if the order is the most efficient. For example, an operator
                        that could be draining your CPU and memory because it is joining tables that
                        contain a large number of records before a filtering operation was
                        performed.
You can also view an operator's location within the Query Plan and the
                        operator's execution details by doing the following:
To display where the operator is located in the Query Plan, hover
                                over an event box. 
To display, in the right-side panel, the operator's execution
                                details from the Query Plan, click on an event box. 



To identify and validate which tasks completed or are taking too long to run,
                    do the following:


In the stages column, click the dag_xxx link. Where,
                                xxx is the DAG ID number.


From the Dag Details Summary panel, click
                                Counters. 



The Counters panel opens.
This panel lists in detail the events performed and the total number of
                        occurrences, which enable you to track, compare, and validate the events
                        that were run for the query. For example, you can verify that the correct
                        number of tasks were run and completed, that the number of records, rows,
                        and the amount of bytes were read and written, and that the correct amount
                        of CPU and memory was consumed for the query.


To verify that the query's configuration settings align with your expectations,
                    do one or more of the following:


To understand the query's execution configuration setting details:
In the stages column, click the query link.
From the Query Details Summary panel, click
                                        Configurations.

To understand the query's DAG execution configuration setting
                                details:
In the stages column, click the dag_xxx link.
                                    Where, xxx is the DAG ID number.
From the Dag Details Summary panel, click
                                        Configurations. 




To troubleshoot performance-related issues between two different runs of the
                    same query, do the following:


From the query's page, select the Trends
                            tab.


Scroll down and from the table, select the check boxes adjacent to the
                            query's job runs that you require, such as the latest run with a run
                            from a week ago, and then click Compare.
The Job Comparison page opens displaying more details about each
                            job.


From the Details section, select the
                                Query Plan tab. 



You can view and analyze the selected query plans Side By
                            Side or as a Unified plan that
                        highlights the differences in color, which enables you to quickly identify
                        what changed between the selected execution runs of the query.
The Job Comparison page not only enables you to
                        compare the query plans but also the following:
The Duration, Data Input, and Data Output of the selected job runs
                                from the Performance section.
Their run-times by selecting the Structure
                                tab.
Configuration differences by selecting the
                                    Configurations tab.
Statistical differences by selecting the
                                    Metrics tab.




Parent topic: Analyzing your Hive queries for debugging and optimization