Configuring the Cloudera Observability cost center criteriaCloudera Docs
Configuring the Cloudera Observability cost center criteria
The Cloudera Observability Financial Governance Chargeback feature defines cost
        centers based on certain criteria. Configure your Cloudera Observability Chargeback settings
        by designating your cost center resource usage across users and pools and defining the unit
        resource consumption costs.

The Cloudera Observability Chargeback calculates user and pool costs based on CPU and
                memory consumption. You decide the CPU and Memory unit rates using your internal
                pricing or cost model. 
noteOnly users with the
                    ObservabilityAccountAdmin access role type can define the
                Chargeback settings, list, create, update, or delete cost centers, and view all the
                Chargeback related dashboards.


Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Cloudera Observability Main navigation panel, select
                        Financial Governance. 

To configure your Chargeback criteria, do the following:


From the Actions list, select
                                Chargeback Settings.The Setup page opens
                                displaying the Chargeback Criteria
                                settings.
From the Select your Chargeback criteria section,
                            select the required user or pool usage criterion option for your cost
                            centers. Where, the Users option defines your
                                cost centers based on users, and the Pools
                                option defines your cost centers based on your resource
                            pools.
From the Unit cost  section, do the following:
In the CPU ($/CPU core hours) field,
                                    enter the amount for each CPU core hour. 
In the Memory ($/GB hours) field, enter
                                    the amount for each gigabyte hour. 
noteBy default, the decimal currency symbol
                                uses the $ dollar sign.
Click Complete Setup.

Now that you have configured your Chargeback criteria settings you can start
                        creating cost centers. 


To change your Chargeback criteria, do the following:

importantCost centers are associated with a
                        specific usage criterion (Users or Pools). Changing the Chargeback usage
                        criteria setting that your cost centers are associated with, such as from
                        Users to Pools, will hide your current cost centers that are associated with
                        the previous usage criterion.

From the Actions list on the Environments page,
                            select Chargeback Settings.The Chargeback
                                Criteria Setup page opens.
If required, change the usage criterion option by selecting the option
                            now required. A warning message appears explaining that all cost
                                centers associated with your previous usage criterion will be
                                hidden.
If required, from the Unit cost section, make
                            your changes to the CPU and Memory unit costs.
Click Update.

If you changed the usage criterion, for example from Users to Pools, your
                        cost centers from the previous usage criterion (Users) are hidden. To
                        display the unit consumption costs of your resources based on the new usage
                        criterion value requires creating new cost centers.
noteThe Cloudera Observability Chargeback
                        feature enables you to have cost centers associated with each usage
                        criterion for tracking the workload consumption costs for both Users and
                        Pools.



Parent topic: Analyzing your environment costs with Cloudera Observability