Events and management details of auto actionsCloudera Docs
Events and management details of auto actions
Describes the fields in the Auto Actions Events and Management pages of Cloudera Observability.
The Events and Management pages help you monitor, manage, and troubleshoot your Auto
   Actions.
Events
The Events page displays information about your auto action audit
          events:


It contains the following audit entry fields:
Status, which displays the results of the auto action event as an
      icon. Where, green indicates that the action was successful (SUCCEEDED). All the other icons
      indicate that the action was unsuccessful (FAILED). 
Type, which displays the auto action's audit event category type,
      such as Create or Update. 
Details, which displays the type of action. When clicked the auto
      action’s Event Details audit log opens, as shown in the following
       Invoke and Update event type example images:
Figure 1. Invoke Event Type Example



Figure 2. Update Event Type Example



Auto Action Name, which displays the unique name you entered for the
      auto action. 
Scope, which displays the workload component service that is
      monitored by the action. 
Time, which displays the time stamp of when the auto action's audit
      event occurred.
importantBy default, the Cloudera Observability UI
     limits the number of displayed audit events to 500 and sorts them in ascending order (newest
     time stamp first). To display older audit events, from the time-range list on the Auto Actions
     Events page, change the date range duration and/or the time range duration.

Management
The Management page displays your auto action's defined settings and
          state:


It contains the following entry fields:
Status, which displays the current state of the action, as either
      Enabled or Disabled.

Name, which contains the name of the auto action. When clicked the auto
      action's definition settings page opens. 
Action, which displays the name of the action that is invoked when
      the auto action is triggered, such as Notify Only. 
Scope, which displays the workload component service that is
      monitored by the action.

Criteria, which displays the action's Criteria filters. These are
      attributes with static values that remain the same during the execution of a job or
      query.
Triggers, which displays the action's Trigger conditions. These are
      attributes with dynamic values that change during the execution of a job or query.



Parent topic: Triggering action alerts across jobs and queries