Monitoring your Hive serviceCloudera Docs
Monitoring your Hive service
Identify Hive service problems that may be affecting your Hive workloads, such as
        queries that are running slow or that are failing, with the Cloudera Observability Hive
        cluster service metrics.

Describes where to view the Cloudera Observability Hive cluster service metrics and
                how to build your own service chart from the Cloudera Manager service metrics and
                Chart Builder. note

The Cloudera Observability Hive cluster service metrics are not
                            available for a Virtual Warehouse environment.
If you do not see any of these features and/or metrics, verify that
                            Cloudera Manager has been upgraded to the latest version and that
                            Telemetry Publisher was restarted.




Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI and that you
                    selected an environment from the Analytics
Environments page.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens to the main navigation
                            panel.


From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, select the environment required
                            for analysis.

tipYou can reduce the number of
                                environments by selecting your environment's type from the
                                    Environments list.
The Environment navigation panel opens.




Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster required
                    for analysis. 
To display the Cluster
                        Summary page, do one of the following:
For Private Cloud Base and Classic Cluster environment type, verify that
                            the Cluster Summary title is displayed in the
                            browser tab.
For a Data Hub environment type, expand its Data Lake category in the
                            Environment's panel and then locate and select the cluster of interest.
                        
The Cluster Summary page displays a series of performance trends and
                        metric chart widgets about the processed jobs and queries.

tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.

Optional: 
From the time-range list in the Cluster Summary page, select a time period that
                    meets your requirements.

Locate the Hive query of interest by doing one of the following:


In the Cluster Summary page, locate the Hive Query
                                Trend chart widget, click its Total
                                Queries value, and then from the
                                Job column in the Queries page, locate and
                            click the query of interest.
If not already expanded, from the Environment navigation panel, expand
                            the ENGINES category and then select the Hive
                            engine. Locate the Slow Queries chart widget and
                            click the query of interest.



From the .../Hive/Queries/ queryname page, select the
                        Cluster tab. 
The Analysis page opens, which lists the Hive cluster health check metrics
                    that are performed by Cloudera Observability at the end of a Hive job. 

Select, either the metric you require for analysis or a metric that displays a
                    red or yellow icon adjacent to the metric, which represents the threshold
                    warning or error state for at least one unhealthy role instance. 
The Analysis summary page opens, which describes the
                    health check metric performed by Cloudera Observability on the Hive service, the
                    severity conditions and thresholds, and the remediation actions you should
                    consider to resolve a problem. It also contains:
The Analysis chart, which displays the severity
                            condition of the operation during the job run and displays the state of
                            each role instance 5 minutes before the start of the job and 5 minutes
                            after the job has completed. 
The Host Status section, which displays the full
                            list of workload role instances and the hosts they are running on, their
                            health check result, and the severity state icon. 

Optional: 
To build your own chart from a Cloudera Manager health check service metric,
                    click the Metrics option and do the following: 


From the Service Name list, select a service that
                            you are running on your workloads cluster.
From the Metric Name list, select the name of the
                            Cloudera Manager health test metric. 
Click View. 




Parent topic: About the Cloudera Observability Hive cluster service metrics