Troubleshooting failed jobsCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting failed jobs
You can identify and troubleshoot incomplete jobs on your cluster using Cloudera Observability. 
Describes how to locate and troubleshoot jobs that have failed to complete.
                Steps with examples from a Virtual Cluster's Spark engine are used to describe
                how to further investigate and troubleshoot the root cause of a job that failed to
                finish.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Environment Name column in the Environments
                    page, locate and click the name of the environment whose workload diagnostic
                    information requires analysis and troubleshooting.
For this example, select Virtual Cluster from the
                        Environments list and then select a Virtual Cluster
                    required for analysis.The Environment navigation panel opens, which
                        hierarchically lists the environment and its services hosted on the
                            selected environment.

Verify that the Cluster Summary page is displayed.

tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.


The Cluster Summary page, displays performance trends
                        and metrics about the cluster's processed jobs and queries.

Optional: 
From the time-range list, select a time period that meets your
                    requirements.

In the Cluster Summary page, locate the Spark
                        Jobs Trend chart widget and then click its
                        Failed/Killed Jobs value.
The engine's Jobs page opens.

From the Health Check filter's list, select
                        Failed to Finish, which filters the list to display a
                    list of jobs that did not complete.

To view more details about why a job failed to complete, from the
                        Job column select a job's name. The job's page opens
                    displaying information about the job you selected and where the failure
                    happened. 






From the Failures section in the Diagnostic
                        Information column, click More.
The Diagnostic Information dialog box opens, which describes more details
                    about why the job aborted. In the following example, the job was aborted whilst
                    writing rows due to an out of bounds java exception:



Click Close.

To display more information about the stage where the job failed, in this case
                    the Stage-2 process, in the Failing
                        from column, click the stage's link. Or select the
                        Execution Details tab and then click the failed
                    stage's link.
In the following example's Summary panel, it shows that Task 0 was attempted 4
                    times: 



To display more information about all the failed attempts, in the
                        Summary panel, click the
                        Failed task value.
In the following example, the job aborted when Task 0
                    was writing rows. To understand more about what triggered the
                        SparkException error message and to further troubleshoot
                    the root cause, you can open the associated log file by clicking Full
                        error log. 




Parent topic: Understanding, identifying, and addressing problems with Cloudera Observability