Enabling and disabling cluster reportsCloudera Docs
Enabling and disabling cluster reports
The steps that enable you to receive daily reports that help you track and identify
        changes that could be or become potential problems with your jobs and queries. When enabled
        reports that compare your jobs and queries with historical data collected from the previous
        week are sent to the email address that you use to log into Cloudera Observability. 
Describes how to enable and disable daily cluster reports.noteCluster reports are available for Classic Cluster, Private
                Cloud Base, Data Hub, Virtual Warehouse, and Virtual Cluster Cloudera Observability
                environments only and cannot be managed for other users.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, locate the environment from which you
                    require a daily report.

tipYou can reduce the number of environments
                        by selecting your environment's type from the
                            Environments list.


Do one of the following:


To enable Cluster reports:From the environment's
                                    Actions list, select Enable
                                    Cluster Report Emails.

An Email Report message appears confirming enablement.
                            
To disable Cluster reports:When you no longer require a daily report
                                for your environment, from the environment's
                                    Actions list, select Disable
                                    Cluster Report Emails.An Email Report message
                                appears confirming disablement. 




Parent topic: Working with cluster reports