Creating a Cloudera Observability cost centerCloudera Docs
Creating a Cloudera Observability cost center
This topic describes the steps for creating a Cloudera Observability cost center.
        Cost centers separate costs across user or pool usage and track their workload resource
        consumption costs. They can be divided and/or grouped into members associated with a
        specific organization or group for helping you assign actual consumption charges to a user’s
        department. 
Describes how to create a Cloudera Observability cost center. importantTo avoid cost duplication, resources must
                only be assigned one cost center. noteOnly users with
                the ObservabilityAccountAdmin access role type can define the
                Chargeback settings, list, create, update, or delete cost centers, and view all the
                Chargeback related dashboards.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Cloudera Observability Main navigation panel, select
                        Financial Governance. 

To create a new cost center, do the following:  


From the Actions list, select Create a
                                Cost Center.The Create a Cost Center page opens
                                displaying the Cost Center details
                                settings.
In the Name field, enter a unique name for your
                            cost center. 
In the Description field,
                            enter a meaningful description for the cost center. 
From the Environment Selection section, click
                            inside its text field to display a hierarchical list of your
                            environments and their clusters. 
From the hierarchical list, locate the cluster in which your jobs or
                            queries run and select its check box.The cluster and its parent
                                service are also highlighted and the cluster's name is populated in
                                the Environment Selection text field.noteFor multiple clusters within an
                                    environment or within an environment's service, such as a Data
                                    Warehouse, you must select the check box for each of the
                                    clusters you require.
Continue to locate and add more clusters and their
                            environments. 
Depending on the Chargeback usage criterion option you selected when you
                            configured your Chargeback settings, do one of the following: 
If you selected Pools, click inside the
                                        Add Pools field and then select
                                    either one or multiple resource pools, or select All (denoted as
                                    a star *), which highlights all the
                                    resource pools associated with the selected cluster. The
                                            Add Pools field is populated with
                                        the selected pools.
If you selected Users, click inside the
                                        Add Users field and then select
                                    either one or multiple users, or select All (denoted as a star
                                        *), which highlights all the users
                                    associated with the selected cluster.The Add
                                            Users field is populated with the selected
                                        users.
noteOnly those pools or users that are
                                associated with the environment's cluster that you previously
                                selected in the Environment Selection's field are
                            listed.
Click Create.The CDP Chargeback page opens
                                displaying a Success message, which denotes
                                that the cost center was successfully created, and your new cost
                                center is listed under the Cost Centers
                                column. noteUntil data is available from a
                                    job run, within the clusters you selected, the costs and
                                    resource usage will not display. Zero cost and resource usage
                                    values for the cost center denote that no charges have been
                                    incurred. If this continues after a job has run, check that the
                                    correct time-period is displayed.

Now that you have created a cost center you can now view the costs and
                        resource usage associated with your cost center. 


To edit an existing cost center, do the following:


In the Chargeback page, locate and select the cost center that requires
                            changes.
From the Actions list, select Edit
                                Cost Center.The Cost Center details page opens
                                displaying the Cost Center details
                                settings.
Make your changes.
Click Update.



To delete an existing cost center, do the following:


In the Chargeback page, locate and select the cost center that requires
                            deletion.
From the Actions list, select Delete
                                Cost Center.A confirmation message appears confirming
                                the deletion.
Click OK.

The cost center is deleted and removed from the environment's cost center
                        list and all the user and pool costs associated with the cost center are
                        moved into the Uncategorized section.



Parent topic: Analyzing your environment costs with Cloudera Observability