Displaying your costs associated with a cost centerCloudera Docs
Displaying your costs associated with a cost center
When a Cloudera Observability cost center is created, detailed summary Chargeback
        reports of the costs and resource usage for the environment are also generated that enable
        you to analyze the costs and the cost break-down associated with the cost center. You can
        view the current and historical costs and the resource usage associated with your cost
        centers.
Steps on how to view the detailed summary reports associated with a cost center.
                The Cloudera Observability Chargeback reports visually display the tracked
                resource consumption and usage costs associated with the cost center for a specific
                time period that you select from the time-range list. Within each report you
                can to drill down further:
To view the users, resource pools, jobs, and queries with the highest
                        costs.
To view the health of a job or query of interest.
To optimize costs by using the Cloudera Observability prescriptive guidance
                        and recommendations that enable you to improve performance and resource
                        usage.


Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Cloudera Observability Main navigation panel, select
                        Financial Governance. 
The Cloudera Observability Chargeback page opens, which displays:
The total cost and CPU and memory hourly usage for all of your cost
                            centers including those uncategorised resource usage costs not yet
                            utilized.
Lists your existing cost centers that use the current criteria settings
                            and displays the total costs and CPU and Memory hourly usage associated
                            with each cost center.
The total cost and CPU and memory hourly usage for users and pools that
                            are not yet assigned to a cost center in the uncategorized section.


To display a cost center's detailed report that includes costs for each chosen
                    environment, do the following:


From the time-range list, select a time-period that meets your
                            requirements.
From the Chargeback page, click inside the cost center row that requires
                                analysis.The cost center's report page opens, which displays the
                                    following:
The total costs and CPU and Memory hourly usage for the cost
                                        center.
Lists the environments that are associated with the cost
                                        center and displays their total costs and CPU and Memory
                                        hourly usage.

To view more details, such as which clusters created the highest costs
                            within a specific environment, expand the environment by clicking its
                            plus sign (+).



To display the users, pools, jobs, and queries that created the highest costs
                    on a specific cluster of interest, do the following: 


Click inside the cluster row that requires more analysis. The cluster
                                report Overview page opens, which displays the following:
The top 5 users whose jobs created the highest costs. 
The top 5 pools whose jobs created the highest costs.
The top 25 jobs or queries that created the highest costs.
                                    

To gain more insights on the health of a job or query, click the name of
                            the job or query listed in the Top Jobs panel
                            that requires more investigation. The job or query's summary page
                                opens.
Select the Health Checks and Execution
                                Details tabs for more insights and if available read the
                            optimization recommendations.



To view a full list of users, their job costs, and their CPU and Memory hourly
                    usage, from the Overview page, select the Users tab. 

The Users report opens, which displays the following:
The name of the user.
The total cost that the user incurred.
The number of jobs that the user ran.
The CPU and Memory hourly usage.
The total job costs that the Cloudera Observability engines
                                incurred; Impala, Hive, Spark, MapReduce, and Oozie. 



To view a full list of pools, their job costs, and their CPU and Memory hourly
                    usage, select the Pools tab. 

The Pools report opens, which displays the following:
The name of the pool.
The environment that the pool is associated with.
The total cost that the pool incurred.
The number of jobs that the pool ran.
The CPU and Memory hourly usage.
The total job costs that the Cloudera Observability incurred;
                                Impala, Hive, Spark, MapReduce, and Oozie. 



To view historical costs, change the time period currently displayed in the
                    time-range field. For information on how to change the time period, click the
                        Related Information link below.


Related informationSpecifying a time rangeParent topic: Analyzing your environment costs with Cloudera Observability