Troubleshooting with the Job Comparison FeatureCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting with the Job Comparison Feature
You can compare two different runs of the same job, which is especially useful when
        you notice unexpected changes, such as when you have a job that consistently completes
        within a specific amount of time and then it starts taking longer. Comparing two runs of the
        same job enables you to analyze the performance and differences so that you can troubleshoot
        the cause.
Describes how to compare any two runs of a job using the Job Comparison tool.
                Steps with examples from a Virtual Cluster's Spark engine are used to explain how
                to use the job comparison feature for further investigation and
                troubleshooting.noteWhen a job is flagged as slow, you
                can select the slow job from the Slow Jobs chart widget in
                the job's engine page and then in the details page, click Compare with
                    Previous Run. The job is compared with its last run and the results
                are displayed in the Job Comparison page for you to
                analyze.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Environment Name column in the Environments
                    page, locate and click the name of the environment whose workload diagnostic
                    information requires analysis and troubleshooting.
For this example, select Virtual Cluster from the
                        Environments list and then select a Virtual Cluster
                    required for analysis.The Environment navigation panel opens, which
                        hierarchically lists the environment and its services hosted on the
                            selected environment.

Verify that the Cluster Summary page is displayed.

tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.


The Cluster Summary page, displays performance trends
                        and metrics about the cluster's processed jobs and queries.

Optional: 
From the time-range list, select a time period that meets your
                    requirements.

If not already expanded, from the Environment navigation panel expand the
                    Virtual Cluster and then select the Spark engine.
The engine's Summary page opens, in this case the Spark
                        Summary page.

From the Job Trend widget, click its Total
                        Jobs value.
The engine's Jobs page opens.

Examine the list of jobs that have executed during the selected time period and
                    manually compare runs of the same job.
For example, as shown in the following image, when manually comparing the last
                    two runs of the Log Processor job we can see that there are
                    duration differences. In this example, the older run had a Task duration skew
                    health issue, which appears to be fixed.



List and display details of all the runs of a specific job of interest by
                    selecting one of the job runs and then in its jobs details page, click the
                        Trends tab.
In the following example, notice how the amount of Input and Output data
                    changes between runs. The Job Comparison tool enables you to examine more
                    details about two runs to determine why the amount of data changed. In this case
                    you can compare a run with no health issues with the last run of the job:



To compare two job runs, select the check boxes adjacent to the job runs you
                    require and then click Compare. 
The Job Comparison page opens, displaying more details about each job. 
For this example's comparison, the tabs that contain more information about
                    the job runs are the Structure, SQL
                        Executions, and the Metrics tabs:

noteThe SQL Executions tab
                        is only available for Spark jobs.

Display and compare the sub-jobs executed for both of your selected job runs by
                    selecting the Structure tab.
For example, as shown in the following image, the last run of the job (with
                    health issues) completed in 1 minute and 38 seconds and executed 9 sub-jobs and
                    the run that had no health issues took 1 minute and 20 seconds but only executed
                    5 sub-jobs. Clicking any of the listed sub-jobs displays more details.



Display and compare Spark SQL queries that were run and how long they ran for
                    both of your selected job runs by selecting the SQL
                        Executions tab.
For example, as shown in the following image, more Spark SQL queries were run
                    on the data in the last job run.



Display and compare what metrics were performed on both of your selected job
                    runs by selecting the Metrics tab.
For example, as shown in the following image, more input records were digested
                    in the last job run.




Parent topic: Understanding, identifying, and addressing problems with Cloudera Observability