Creating an auto action eventCloudera Docs
Creating an auto action event
The steps to create a Cloudera Observability auto action definition, which is
        triggered when a workload application, job, or query matches the auto action’s definition
        threshold. For example, when a job is taking too long to run it may delay other jobs waiting
        in the queue. With Auto Actions, you can create an auto action alert that informs you
        through an email when a job is exceeding its usual runtime so that you can decide whether to
        manually take steps to alleviate the problem or have an auto action that will terminate the
        job or query process for you.
Describes how to create a Cloudera Observability Auto Action definition. noteThese instructions assume that you have set the required auto
                actions configuration properties in Telemetry Publisher. For information about the
                properties and how to enable the Telemetry Publisher Auto Actions property settings,
                click the Related Information links below.noteAt this time the Auto Actions feature is available for Classic
                Cluster and Private Cloud Base Cloudera Observability environments
            only.

Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI and that you
                    selected an environment from the Analytics
Environments page.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens to the main navigation
                            panel.


From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, select the environment required
                            for analysis.

tipYou can reduce the number of
                                environments by selecting your environment's type from the
                                    Environments list.
The Environment navigation panel opens.




Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster required
                    for analysis. 

tipThe page's title is displayed in the
                        browser tab.


Select the Auto Actions tab.

Do one of the following:


If no other auto actions exist, select the Management tab and then click
                                Auto Actions Setup.
If other auto actions exist, click Create Auto
                                Action.

The Auto Actions Create page opens.


In the Auto Action Name field, enter a unique name that
                    is easily identifiable. 

From the Scope list, select the workload component
                    service that is to be monitored by the action.
For example, if you want your action to only evaluate Spark related
                    applications,  select Spark Application.

Define the conditions for the auto action by doing at least
                        one of the following:


Specify the Criteria:
From the Criteria list, select a criteria
                                    item. 
From the Operator list, select the
                                    required operator. important
Cloudera Observability does not validate regular expressions
                                        when using the matches regex operator
                                        for string criteria types, such as
                                            User,
                                        Pool, or Query
                                            Name. Neither does it display help for poor
                                        syntax. Cloudera recommends validating your code and syntax
                                        before entering your regular expression in the
                                            Value field.
In the Value field, enter the value for
                                    this filter.tipYou can
                                        define multiple AND filters for the Criteria by clicking the
                                        plus sign.noteAn Auto Action
                                        does not require the Criteria filter as long as a Trigger
                                        condition is defined: 
When included, only those workloads that are run on
                                                the selected workload component service and meet the
                                                criteria conditions are tested by the Trigger. 
When not included, all workloads that are run on the
                                                selected workload component service are tested by
                                                the Trigger.


Specify the trigger for the auto action by doing the following: 
From the Metric list, select a metric
                                    item. 
From the Operator list, select the
                                    required operator. noteThe in
                                            between operator is inclusive.
In the Value field, enter the value for
                                    this trigger condition.tipYou can define multiple OR conditions for the trigger by
                                        clicking the plus sign.noteAn
                                        Auto Action does not require the Trigger filter as long as a
                                        Criteria condition is defined:
When included, workloads that are run on the
                                                selected workload component service and meet the
                                                criteria conditions are tested by the Trigger. 
When not included, only those workloads that are run
                                                on the selected workload component service and meet
                                                the criteria conditions are evaluated.





From the Select Action options, select the action that
                    is to be performed when the condition is met.

warningTerminating a workload application,
                        job, or query could impact other workloads. Especially when another workload
                        is dependent on the results of the terminated workload application, job, or
                        query. Before triggering a Kill type action, Cloudera
                        recommends using the Notification only action until
                        you have verified that no issues will arise if the workload application,
                        job, or query is terminated.


From the Notification section do the following: 


In the Emails field, enter the email address that
                            you use to log into Cloudera Observability.
In the Subject field, enter the subject for the
                            email that distinguishes the subject matter from other auto action
                            emails.



Click Create, which creates the action and its audit
                    log, adds it on the Auto Actions Events and Management pages, and displays its
                    status as Enabled and its most recent event type as
                        Create.

When a workload application, job, or query meets the auto action's criteria and
            trigger conditions, the action event is triggered.

Related informationEnabling the Collection of Auto Action Data by Telemetry PublisherTelemetry Publisher configuration settings for Auto ActionsParent topic: Triggering action alerts across jobs and queries