Iceberg overviewCloudera Docs
Iceberg overview
Apache Iceberg is a table format for huge analytics datasets in the cloud. You can
  efficiently query large Iceberg tables on object stores. Iceberg supports concurrent reads and
  writes on all storage media. 
You can use Iceberg when a single table contains tens of petabytes of data, and you can read
   these tables without compromising performance. From Apache Hive (read/write) and Apache Impala
   (read), you can query Iceberg tables. V1 capabilities have reached general availability (GA)
   status. V2 capabilities from Impala are also GA. The following features are included:
Impala reads of Iceberg V2 tables that have had row-level deletes or updates making Apache
     Iceberg ACID compliant with serializable isolation and an optimistic concurrency model 
Materialized views of Iceberg tables
Enhanced maintenance features, such as expiring and removing old snapshots and compaction of
     small files
Performance and scalability
     enhancements
    
Cloudera supports Iceberg in Cloudera Data Warehouse in AWS and Azure environments.
You create Iceberg tables and run queries from Hive or Impala in
   CDP..
   The Hive metastore stores Iceberg metadata, including the location of the table. 
Hive metastore plays a lightweight role in the Catalog operations. Iceberg relieves Hive
   metastore (HMS) pressure by storing partition information in metadata files on the file
   system/object store instead of within the HMS. This architecture supports rapid scaling without
   performance hits.
By default, Hive and Impala use the Iceberg HiveCatalog. Cloudera recommends the default
   HiveCatalog to create an Iceberg table. 
Apache Iceberg integrates Apache Ranger for security. You can use Ranger integration with
   Hive and Impala to apply fine-grained access control to sensitive data in Iceberg tables. Iceberg
   is also integrated with Data Visualization for creating dashboards and other graphics of
   your Iceberg data.

Related informationIceberg support from Spark in Cloudera Data EngineeringApache Software Foundation Iceberg DocsUsing Apache Iceberg