Reuse the subnets created for CDPCloudera Docs
Reuse the subnets created for CDP
To configure and edge node on Azure for your Cloudera Operational Database (COD), you have
        to configure network line-of-sight. One way to configure network line-of-slight is to reuse
        the subnets that were created for CDP.

As a part of the initial CDP setup, you have already created three subnets or CDP
                would have automatically created this for you. You can use the standard computer
                service in the Azure Marketplace to launch a Virtual Machine on the same resource
                group and subnet as your COD. You can choose a Linux distribution, the size of the
                instance, and the authentication based on your requirements and security policies.
                Ensure that you allocate enough resources for the edge node based on your use case
                and requirements. importantLaunching a new Virtual Machine on the same
                    subnet as COD reduces the number of IP addresses that CDP can use to
                    automatically provision new resources for you.



Create a Virtual Machine from the Azure Marketplace.
For example, CentOS, standard instance with and image of your choice.noteYou
                        can use a public key or password authentication based on your security
                        requirements. Spot instances are not recommended for the edge note.
                    

Set your inbound port rules to allow access to this edge node by both the COD
                    as well as your client applications. 

Click Next > Disks.

Select a storage type.


Select your CDP VNet.


Select a subnet from the VNet.
If you have created both public and private subnets, choose the public
                            subnet.


Select the Public IP that is accessible from the
                            Internet.



Review your settings and then click Review +
                    Create.

Validate that you have a networking line-of-sight
            correctly configured.

Parent topic: Configuring network line-of-sight