Configuring edge node on Azure for CODCloudera Docs
Configuring edge node on Azure for COD
You must configure an edge node on Microsoft Azure to run applications using Apache
    HBase Java API or the Apache Phoenix thick JDBC driver. When configuring an edge node, you have
    to configure a networking line-of-sight, DNS, and Kerberos.
By default, in Cloudera Operational Database (COD), your database is not accessible to the public
      internet, both due to security groups on the subnets of the VNet which the database is
      deployed into as well as ingress rules of the VNet itself.
A correctly configured edge node can run applications using the Apache HBase Java API or the
      Apache Phoenix thick JDBC driver.

Prerequisites for configuring an edge node on Azure for CODYou have the ensure that you fulfill all the prerequisites or you will not be able to   configure an edge node on Azure.Configuring network line-of-sightAn edge node must be able to access the HBase services running inside of your CDP         Operational Database (COD). These services are bound to the private network interfaces.         Therefore, your edge node must be able to resolve the private IP addresses in your CDP         VNet.Verify the network line-of-sightAfter you have created your edge node and can SSH into it, validate that you have a         networking line-of-sight correctly configured. You can validate this using the             ping command from your edge node to an IP address from within your CDP         VNet.Configure DNSYou must configure your edge node to perform forward and reverse DNS lookups with         your Cloudera Operational Database (COD). Obtain the private IP address of your CDP environment         and configure your edge node to resolve hostnames from your COD. An edge node must resolve         the hostnames from your COD. Verify the DNS configurationAfter you configured the nameserver you have to verify that your edge node can now         resolve DNS names.Configure KerberosAll Cloudera Operational Databases (CODs) are secured with Kerberos-based authentication,         meaning that only authorized users can connect to your database. All HBase and Phoenix Thick         JDBC clients must have a proper Kerberos configuration on the host where they run a         client.