Configuring edge node on AWS for CODCloudera Docs
Configuring edge node on AWS for COD
You must configure an edge node on Amazon AWS to run applications using Apache HBase
    Java API or the Apache Phoenix thick JDBC driver. When configuring an edge node, you have to
    configure a networking line-of-sight, DNS, and Kerberos.
By default, in Cloudera Operational Database (COD), your database is not accessible to
      the public internet, both due to security groups on the subnets of the VPC which the database
      is deployed into as well as ingress rules of the VPC itself. 
A correctly configured edge node can run applications using the Apache HBase Java API or the
      Apache Phoenix thick JDBC driver.

Prerequisites for configuring an edge node on AWS for CODEnsure that you meet all the prerequisites; otherwise you will be unable to configure an   edge node on AWS.Configuring network line-of-sightAn edge node must be able to access the HBase services running inside your CDP         Operational Database (COD). These services are bound to the private network interfaces.         Therefore, your edge node must be able to resolve the private IP addresses in your Virtual         Private Cloud (VPC).Verify the network line-of-sightAfter you create your edge node and SSH into it, validate that you have a networking         line-of-sight correctly configured. You can validate this using the ping command from your         edge node to an IP address within your CDP VPC.Configure DNSYou must configure your edge node to perform forward and reverse DNS lookups with         your Cloudera Operational Database (COD). Obtain the private IP address of your CDP environment         and configure your edge node to resolve hostnames from your COD. An edge node must resolve         the hostnames from your COD. Verify the DNS configurationAfter you configured the nameserver you have to verify that your edge node can now         resolve DNS names.Configure KerberosAll Cloudera Operational Databases (CODs) are secured with Kerberos-based authentication,         meaning that only authorized users can connect to your database. All HBase and Phoenix Thick         JDBC clients must have a proper Kerberos configuration on the host where they run a         client.