Reuse the subnets created for CDPCloudera Docs
Reuse the subnets created for CDP
To configure and edge node on AWS for your Cloudera Operational Database (COD), you have
        to configure network line-of-sight. One way to configure network line-of-slight is to reuse
        the subnets that were created for CDP.

As a part of the initial CDP setup, you have already created subnet(s) or CDP has
                automatically created this for you. You can use the standard EC2 service in the AWS
                Console or AWS CLI to launch an EC2 node in one of these subnets. You can choose a
                Linux distribution, the EBS or instance storage, and the instance type of your
                choice. Ensure that you allocate enough resources for the edge node based on your
                use case and requirements.importantLaunching a new EC2 instance into
                    these subnets reduces the number of IP addresses that CDP can use to
                    automatically provision new resources for you. 


Create an EC2 node using the AWS console. For example, Amazon Linux 2 AMI
                    (HVM), SSD Volume Type.

Select an instance type. For example: t3.xlarge

Click Select Instance Details..


Select your CDP VPC.


Select a subnet from the VPC. 
 If you have created both public and private subnets, choose the
                            public subnet.


Click Auto-assign Public IP to be
                            true.



Click Next: Add Storage.
Optionally you can increase the EBS volume size depending on your
                    requirements.

Click Next, and then Add Tags as
                    required by your IT policies.

Click Next: Configure Security Group.
Add a rule for Inbound SSH on port 22 in one of the
                    following ways:
Choose from My UP to allow SSH from your
                            computer.
Provide an appropriate range for your corporate network.


Click Review and Launch, and then click
                        Launch.

Specify the SSH key pair.

Open a terminal on your computer, and SSH to the instances as the ec2-user
                    using the Public DNS (IPv4) address after the instance launches.

Validate that you have a networking line-of-sight correctly configured.

Parent topic: Configuring network line-of-sight