Configuring network line-of-sightCloudera Docs
Configuring network line-of-sight
An edge node must be able to access the HBase services running inside your CDP
        Operational Database (COD). These services are bound to the private network interfaces.
        Therefore, your edge node must be able to resolve the private IP addresses in your Virtual
        Private Cloud (VPC).
There are multiple methods how you can enable your edge node to resolve the private IP
            addresses in your CDP VPC. For example:
Reuse the subnets created for CDP
VPC peering
Direct connect
Virtual Private Network

Reuse the subnets created for CDP
As a part of the initial CDP setup, you have already created subnet(s) or CDP has
                automatically created this for you. You can use the standard EC2 service in the AWS
                Console or AWS CLI to launch an EC2 node in one of these subnets. For more
                information, see Reuse the subnets created for CDP

VPC peering
Another option is to create a second VPC and peer it with the VPC you created for
                CDP. This setup allows nodes in both VPCs to communicate with one another. For more
                information about VPC Peering, see What is VPC peering? - Amazon Virtual Private
                        Cloud.

Direct connect
To enable computers in your corporate network to communicate with the CDP VPC, you
                may find that the AWS Direct Connect solution is appropriate. Direct Connect enables
                hardware which you control to communicate with resources on AWS. For more
                information about Direct Connect, see AWS Direct Connect.

Virtual Private Network
If you are using a corporate VPN network, you can establish a VPN connection over the
                Internet to your COD. For more information, see VPN connections - Amazon Virtual Private
                        Cloud. 


Reuse the subnets created for CDPTo configure and edge node on AWS for your Cloudera Operational Database (COD), you have         to configure network line-of-sight. One way to configure network line-of-slight is to reuse         the subnets that were created for CDP.Parent topic: Configuring edge node on AWS for COD