Registering a CDP Private Cloud environmentCloudera Docs
Registering a CDP Private Cloud environment
After you have set up the CDP Private Cloud requirements, you can register the environment.
Steps


Management Console UI

Sign into the CDP console.
Click Environments.
On the Environments page, click Register Environment.
On the Register Environment page, provide the required information.
              Environment
Environments in CDP Private Cloud provide shared data, security, and governance
                (metadata) for your machine learning and data warehouse applications.

Property
Description



Environment Name
Enter a name for your environment. This name will be used
                          to refer to this environment in CDP.Note: Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)
                            service requires that you specify the environment name 45 characters
                            long. This is because CDW uses a deterministic namespace and adds a
                            prefix to the environment name. The length of the namespace ID after CDW
                            applies a prefix to the Environment name, including the hyphen (-),
                            should not exceed 63 characters.


Compute Cluster Resources
To run workloads, you must specify a Kubeconfig file to register a Kubernetes
                cluster with CDP Private Cloud.


Property
Description



Kubernetes Configurations
Click Upload Files, then select a Kubeconfig file to enable
                        CDP to access a Kubernetes cluster.


Storage class
The storage class on the OpenShift cluster. If you do not specify this
                        value, the default storage class is used.


Domain
The default domain suffix for workload applications.


Data Lake
A Data Lake refers to the shared security and governance services in a CDP Data
                Center cluster linked to a CDP Private Cloud environment, and managed by Cloudera
                Manager. To register an environment, CDP Private Cloud needs to access Cloudera
                Manager and its Data Lake services.


Parameter
Description



Cloudera Manager URL
The Cloudera Manager URL.


Cloudera Manager Admin Username
The Cloudera Manager administrator user name.


Cloudera Manager Admin Password
The Cloudera Manager administrator password.



Under Data Lake, click Connect.When CDP
              Private Cloud has successfully connected to Cloudera Manager, a confirmation message
              appears, along with the Data Lake cluster services.
Click Register.The environment page appears. The new environment is
              also listed on the Environments page.noteYou can repeat steps 2 through 5 to
                register more environments. If required, you can select a different Data Lake
                cluster while registering the additional environment. However, make sure that the
                Cloudera Manager instance is the same that you had specified to create the initial
                environment.



CLI
You can use the following command to create a new
          environment:cdp environments create-private-environment \
--environment-name <value> \
--address <value> \
--authentication-token <value> \
----cluster-names <value>
For a detailed description of the command properties, use cdp environments
            create-private-environment --help


Parent topic: Environments