Deploy a flow definitionCloudera Docs
Deploy a flow definition
Deploy a flow definition to run NiFi flows as flow deployments in CDF. To do this,
    launch the Deployment wizard and specify your environment, parameters,
    sizing, and KPIs.
Steps

In DataFlow, from the left navigation pane, click Catalog.Flow
          definitions available for you to deploy are displayed, one definition per row.
Launch the Deployment wizard.
Click the row to display the flow definition details and versions.
Click a row representing a flow definition version to display flow definition version
            details and the Deploy button.
Click Deploy to launch the Deployment
              wizard.



From the Deployment wizard, select the environment to which you
        want to deploy this version of your flow definition. note
Only environments which have been enabled for DataFlow, are in a healthy state, and to
            which you have access display in the dropdown. Once you have selected the target
            environment, you cannot change it later in the flow deployment process without starting
            over.

From Overview, perform the following preliminary tasks: 

Give your flow deployment a unique name. You can use this name to distinguish between
              different versions of a flow definition, flow definitions deployed to different
              environments, and similar. 
note
Flow Deployment names need to be unique. The Deployment
                wizard indicates whether a name is valid by displaying a green check below the
                  Deployment Name text box.



From NiFi Configuration, specify the following NiFi configuration
          information:

Pick the NiFi Runtime Version for your flow deployment.
              Cloudera recommends that you always use the latest available version, if possible.
            


Specify whether you want to use Inbound Connections that allow your flow deployment
              receiving data from an external data source. If so, specify the endpoint host name and
              listening port(s) where your flow deployment listens to incoming data.
See Create an inbound connection endpoint for complete information on
              endpoint configuration options.


Specify whether you want to use NiFi Archives (NAR) to deploy custom NiFi processors
              or controller services. If so, specify the CDP Workload Username and password, and
              cloud storage location you used when preparing to deploy custom processors.
note
tip
Ensure that you click the Apply button specific to
                  Custom NAR Configuration before proceeding.



Specify whether you want the flow deployment to auto-start once deployed. 



In Parameters, specify parameter values like connection strings,
        usernames and similar, and upload files like truststores, jars, and similar.
Specify your Sizing & Scaling configurations.
NiFi node sizing


You can adjust the size of your cluster from Extra Small to Large.


Number of NiFi nodes


You can set whether you want to automatically scale your cluster according to
                  flow deployment capacity requirements. When you enable auto-scaling, the minimum
                  NiFi nodes are used for initial size and the workload scales up or down depending
                  on resource demands.
You can set the number of nodes from 1 to 32.

note
Flow deployments scale horizontally by adding or removing more NiFi nodes to a
                  deployment. Deployments do not scale vertically and the node size cannot be
                  changed for running deployments.



From KPIs, you may choose to identify key performance indicators
        (KPIs), the metrics to track those KPIs, and when and how to receive alerts about the KPI
        metrics tracking. tip
You can reorder the KPIs by dragging them up or down the list. The order you configure
            here will be reflected in the detailed monitoring view of the resulting deployment.
See Working with KPIs for complete information about the KPIs
          available to you and how to monitor them.
Review a summary of the information provided and make any necessary
        edits by clicking Previous. When you are finished, complete your flow
        deployment by clicking Deploy.tip
Click View CLI Command to see the equivalent CDP CLI syntax in a
            help pane. 
When you copy the create-deployment syntax, remove the
              auto-start-flow parameter because it is not currently recognized.


Results
Once you click Deploy, you are redirected to the
        Alerts tab for the deployment where you can track its progress. 

Parent topic: Creating a flow deployment