Cloudera DataFlow key featuresCloudera Docs
Cloudera DataFlow key features
Cloudera DataFlow for the Public Cloud (CDF-PC) is a cloud-native universal data
    distribution service powered by Apache NiFi ​​ that enables you to connect to any data source,
    process and deliver data to any destination. For more details on features and functionalities,
    see the below list.
Flow and resource isolation
CDF allows you to easily isolate data flows from each other and guarantee a set of
        resources to each data flow without requiring administrators to create additional NiFi
        clusters. For each flow deployment, CDF creates a dedicated, auto-scaling NiFi cluster on
        the shared Kubernetes resources in an environment. So flow deployments can scale
        independently from each other, allowing you to isolate flow deployments and assign resources
        to deployments as needed.
Flow isolation can be useful when you want to guarantee a set of resources for a specific
        data flow or when you want to isolate failure domains.

Auto-scaling flow deployments
CDF offers two types of auto-scaling capabilities for Apache NiFi data flows. Flow
        deployments may automatically scale up and down based on CPU utilization within the
        boundaries that are set in the deployment wizard. In this case CDF scales flow deployments
        by adding or removing NiFi pods on the Kubernetes cluster as needed, as well as scaling the
        Kubernetes cluster up or down within boundaries specified during DataFlow enablement. On top
        of scaling based on CPU utilization, you may also enable Flow Metrics Scaling in the
        deployment wizard. This feature adds or removes NiFi pods to the Kubernetes cluster based on
        anticipated traffic on connection(s) where data first enters the flow. Scaling happens
        automatically, driven by a prediction algorithm, that uses a backpressure prediction metric
        to forecast how full a queue will be within a predefined period of time. The metric targets
        only connections which are attached to source processors. You do not need to configure
        anything during flow deployment. When Flow Metrics Scaling is enabled, both this metric and
        CPU utilization are considered. Whichever metric calls for higher scale will be obeyed.

Fault tolerant flow deployments
Flow Deployments use persistent volumes to store NiFi repositories in a durable way. In
        case of an instance or pod failure, CDF automatically spins up new pods and re-attaches the
        persistent volumes to ensure data processing continues from where it was interrupted. 

Quick flow deployment with predefined ReadyFlows
You can quickly deploy a predefined set of data flows with minimal configuration
        called ReadyFlows. ReadyFlows provide you with an easy way to implement the most common data
        flow use cases.

Serverless NiFi Flows with DataFlow Functions
DataFlow Functions allows you to deploy NiFi flows not only as long running auto scaling
        Kubernetes clusters but also as functions on cloud providers’ serverless compute services
        including AWS Lambda, Azure Functions, and Google Cloud Functions. DataFlow Functions
        targets use cases that do not require always running NiFi flows, enables developers to focus
        more on business logic and less on operational management, and establishes a true pay for
        value model with a serverless architecture.

Central monitoring dashboard and KPIs
You can monitor your flow deployments across environments and cloud providers on
        a single dashboard. You can track important flow performance metrics by defining KPI alerts
        for your flow deployments.

Universal connectivity
You can connect to any data source or target using NiFi's rich processor library,
        including on-premise data sources, cloud data storage, cloud data warehouses, log data
        sources, cloud data analytics services, or cloud business process services.

Role-based access control
You can define who is entitled to enable the data service in an environment, who
        can create new flow deployments or monitor existing flow deployments by assigning predefined
        roles like Flow Administrator or Flow User to individual CDP users or groups.

Secure inbound connections
You can easily provision secure, stable, and scalable endpoints, making it easy
        for any application to send data to flow deployments.

Continuous integration (CI) / Continuous deployment (CD)
The DataFlow service is built with automation in mind. Any action that is
        performed on the UI can be turned into a CLI statement for automation. Deploying a new NiFi
        flow is as easy as executing a single CLI command.


