Using Admin API Demo: ExamplesCloudera Docs
Using Admin API Demo: Examples
Cloudera Data Visualization's URL-based Admin API can easily
                display the data format for each item type.
The demo has a tab for each enabled item type, and supports all the API
                        functions: Fetch (one), Fetch
                                All, Create,
                                Update, and
                        Delete.
The following examples demonstrate some of the functions available through the
                        demo.
 Fetching All User Information
To get information on all users, simply click
                                        Fetch. Cloudera Data Visualization returns the list of
                                registered users, as demonstrated by the following screenshot.




Fetching Single User Information, With Detail
The following steps shows how to extract information on a single item
                                using its ID or name. The following image is a screen shot of
                                extracting information on a single item using its ID, and contains
                                the actions available for single items:
                                        Update, Clone,
                                and Delete.

Under the Users tab, enter the
                                                ID.
Select the Detail option to get the full
                                        data for that item, in this case user ID 1.
Click Fetch.





 Cloning an Item
When you Clone an item, the resulting screen shows
                                a duplicate of the item, but clears the ID
                                field. This is a partial operation; see Creating a New Item.




Creating a New Item
If you click Create at this time (after Cloning an Item), Cloudera Data Visualization returns an error,
                                because a user with this name already exists. 
When you change the username, you must also supply the initial password.
                                Here, we created a new user by changing the
                                        username and adding an extra line that
                                specifies the password:
"username": "user2-copy",
"password": "initial-pw",



When you click Create now, Cloudera Data Visualization notifies you that
                                your update is successful, and refreshes the interface to show the
                                results consistent with fetching detailed information for a specific
                                user, as described in Fetching Single User Information, With Detail.
Note that for security reasons, the password is not included in the
                                fetched user details.




 Changing Passwords
To change the user's password, you must supply both the current password
                                        (password) and the new password
                                        (new_password).
Edit the user detail by adding the following two lines of code, and click
                                        Update.

"password": "initial-pw",
"new_password": "updated-pw",






Parent topic: Admin API Demo