Perform the removalCloudera Docs
Perform the removal
When you remove any Kudu masters from a multi-master deployment, you need to rewrite
    the Raft configuration on the remaining masters, remove data and WAL directories from the
    unwanted masters, and finaly modify the value of the tserver_master_addrs
    configuration parameter for the tablet servers to remove the unwanted masters. You need to bring
    the Kudu clusters down. Therefore, identify at least a one-hour maintenance window for this
    task. 
Perform the Raft configuration change by running the kudu master
            remove tool.
Only a single master can be removed at a time. If multiple masters need to be removed,
          run the tool multiple times. In the following example master-2 is being
          removed from a Kudu cluster with two masters master-1, and
            master-2:$ sudo -u kudu kudu master remove master-1,master-2 master-2

 Remove the data directories and WAL directory on the unwanted masters. This is a
          precaution to ensure that they cannot start up again and interfere with the new
          multi-master deployment.

 Modify the value of the master_addresses
          configuration parameter for the masters of the new multi-master deployment. 

Restart all of the masters that were not removed.

If you are not using Cloudera Manager: Modify the value of the tserver_master_addrs configuration parameter for the tablet servers to remove
          any unwanted masters.

 Retart all of the tablet servers. 


To verify that all masters are working properly, consider performing the
        following checks: 

 Using a browser, visit each master’s web UI and navigate to the
                /masters page. All the masters should now be listed there with one
              master in the LEADER role and the others in the
                FOLLOWER role. The contents of /masters on each
              master should be the same. 


 Run a Kudu system check (ksck) on the cluster using the
                kudu command line tool.




Related informationConfigure Kudu processesMonitoring cluster health with ksckParent topic: Remove Kudu masters