Best practices when adding new tablet serversCloudera Docs
Best practices when adding new tablet servers
A common workflow when administering a Kudu cluster is adding additional tablet server
  instances, in an effort to increase storage capacity, decrease load or utilization on individual
  hosts, increase compute power, and more.
By default, any newly added tablet servers will not be utilized immediately after their
   addition to the cluster. Instead, newly added tablet servers will only be utilized when new
   tablets are created or when existing tablets need to be replicated, which can lead to imbalanced
   nodes. It's recommended to run the rebalancer CLI tool just after adding a new tablet server into
   the cluster.
Avoid placing multiple tablet servers on a single node. Doing so nullifies the point of
   increasing the overall storage capacity of a Kudu cluster and increases the likelihood of tablet
   unavailability when a single node fails (the latter drawback is not applicable if the cluster is
   properly configured to use the rack awareness (location awareness) feature.
To add additional tablet servers to an existing cluster, the following steps can be taken to
   ensure tablet replicas are uniformly distributed across the cluster:
Ensure that Kudu is installed on the new machines being added to the cluster, and that the
     new instances have been correctly configured to point to the pre-existing cluster. Then, start
     the new tablet server instances. 
Verify that the new instances check in with the Kudu Master(s) successfully. A quick method
     for verifying whether they have successfully checked in with the existing Master instances is
     to view the Kudu Master WebUI, specifically the /tablet-servers section, and
     validate that the newly added instances are registered, and have a heartbeat.
Once the tablet server(s) are successfully online and healthy, follow the steps to run the
     rebalancing tool which spreads the existing tablet replicas to the newly added tablet
     servers.
After the rebalancer tool has completed, or even during its execution, you can check the
     health of the cluster using the ksck command-line utility.


