Compaction observability in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Compaction observability in Cloudera Manager
Compaction observability is a notification and information system based on metrics about
  the health of the compaction process. A healthy compaction process is critical to query
  performance, availability, and uptime of your data warehouse. You learn how to use compaction
  observability to prevent serious problems from developing.
Compaction runs in the background. At regular intervals, Hive accesses the health of the
   compaction process, and logs an error in the event of a problem. The assessment is based on
   metrics, such as the number of rows in the metadata table TXN_TO_WRITE_ID and
   the age of the longest running transaction (oldest_open_txn_age_in_sec). For example, if
   compaction is not running, the TXN_TO_WRITE_ID table in the HMS backend database
   becomes bloated and queries slow down.
Compaction health monitoring provides the following information to help you proactively address
   the problems before the problems become an emergency:
Warnings and errors indicating problems in compaction processes
Charts of various metrics that provide information about compaction health
Recommended actions to address suboptimal configurations

Compaction observability does not attempt to do root cause analysis (RCA) and does not attempt
   to fix the underlying problem. Compaction observability helps you quickly respond to symptoms of
   compaction problems.
Using Cloudera Manager, you can view compaction health checks for the Hive Metastore and Hive
   on Tez services, view actions and advice related to configurations and thresholds, and use the
   Compaction tab from the Hive Metastore service to view compaction-related charts based on the
   collected metrics.

Configuring compaction health monitoringAs an administrator, you can use Cloudera Manager to enable or disable compaction         health tests for the Hive Metastore (HMS) and HiveServer (HS2) services, configure how those         health tests factor into the overall health of the service, and modify thresholds for the         status of certain health tests.Monitoring compaction health in Cloudera ManagerUsing Cloudera Manager, you can view compaction health checks for the Hive Metastore         (HMS) and Hive on Tez services, view actions and advice related to configurations and         thresholds, and use the Compaction tab from the Hive Metastore service to view         compaction-related charts based on the collected metrics.Hive ACID metric properties for compaction observabilityAs an administrator, you must configure certain properties related to the Hive ACID     metrics service to enable the collection of Hive ACID metrics that are required to display     compaction-related alerts and charts in Cloudera Manager.