Replicating multiple large tables using CDP Public Cloud Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Replicating multiple large tables using CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager
You can create multiple replication policies to replicate multiple large HDFS
    directories, Hive external tables, or HBase tables using Replication Manager in CDP Public
    Cloud.
When you have multiple tables or directories to replicate, you might want to create
      more than one replication policy to replicate the data. This is because even if one
      replication policy fails, it would not stop the replication process. You can troubleshoot and
      restart the failed replication policy or create a new replication policy for the tables or
      directories in the failed replication policy. 
Scenario and solution
You want to replicate multiple large HBase tables (around 6000 tables) using the
        incremental approach. In this approach, you replicate data in batches. For example, 500
        tables at a time. This approach ensures that the source cluster is healthy because you
        replicate data in small batches. 
The following steps explain the incremental approach in detail:

You create an HBase replication policy for the first 500 tables.Internally,
            Replication Manager performs the following steps:
Creates a disabled HBase peer on the source cluster or disables if the
              HBase peer existed. 
Creates a snapshot and copies it to the target cluster. HBase
                replication policies use snapshots to replicate existing HBase data; this step
                ensures that all the existing data existing is replicated.
Restores the snapshot to appear as the table on the target. This step ensures that the existing data is replicated to the target
              cluster.
Deletes the snapshot. The Replication Manager performs this
                step after the replication is successfully complete.
Enables table’s replication scope for subsequent replication. 
Enables the peer. This step ensures that the accumulated data
                is completely replicated. 
After all the accumulated data is migrated, the HBase service continues to
            replicate new/changed data in this batch of tables automatically.
Create another HBase replication policy to replicate the next batch of 500 tables after
          all the existing data and accumulated data of the first batch of tables is migrated
          successfully.
You can continue this process until all the tables are replicated successfully.

In an ideal scenario, the time taken to replicate 500 tables of 6 TB size might
        take around four to five hours, and the time taken to replicate the accumulated data might
        be another 30 minutes to one and a half hours, depending on the speed at which the data is
        being generated on the source cluster. Therefore, this approach uses 12 batches and around
        four to five days to replicate all the 6000+ tables to Cloudera Operational Database
        (COD).
For more information about the cluster versions supported by Replication Manager,
        clusters preparation process to complete before you create the HBase replication policy,
        HBase replication policy creation, and for an in depth analysis of the use case, see related
        information.


Related informationUsing HBase replication policyPreparing to create an HBase replication policyCreating an HBase replication policyParent topic: Use cases for Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud