Use cases for Replication Manager in CDP Public CloudCloudera Docs
Use cases for Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud
Replication Manager is a service in CDP Public Cloud. You can create replication
  policies in Replication Manager to copy and migrate data from CDH (version 5.13 and higher)
  clusters (HDFS, Hive, and HBase data) and CDP Private Cloud Base (version 7.1.4 and higher)
  clusters (HDFS, Hive external tables, and HBase data) to CDP Public Cloud clusters. You can also
  replicate HDFS data from classic clusters (CDH, CDP Private Cloud Base, and HDP clusters) to
  Public Cloud buckets. The supported Public Cloud services include Amazon S3 and Microsoft Azure
  ADLS Gen2 (ABFS).
You can use Replication Manager for a variety of use cases. Some major use cases include:
Implementing a complete backup and restore solution.You might want to implement a backup
      and restore solution for HDFS data or Hive external tables. You create the replication policy
      based on the type of data you want to backup and restore. To implement this use case, you back
      up data in ClusterA to ClusterB. When the need arises, you can create another replication
      policy to restore the data from ClusterB to ClusterA. 
Migrating legacy data (for example, from CDH clusters) to CDP Public Cloud clusters on
     Amazon S3 and Microsoft Azure ADLS Gen2 (ABFS).Replication Manager supports replicating HDFS
      data, Hive external tables, and HBase data from CDH (version 5.13 and higher) clusters (HDFS,
      Hive, and HBase data) to CDP Public Cloud clusters. Before you create replication policies,
      you must prepare the clusters and complete the prerequisites.Alternatively, you can use
      CDP CLI to create replication policies to replicate HDFS data and Hive external
     tables.
Replicating the required data to another cluster to run workloads or analytics.Sometimes,
            you might want to move workloads, especially heavy-duty workloads to another cluster to
            reduce the load and optimize the performance of the primary cluster, or run analytics on
            the required data on another cluster because you do not want to overload the primary
            cluster. In such scenarios, you can create replication policies in Replication Manager
            to replicate the required data at regular intervals. After replication, you can use the
            required tools to analyze the data.


Replicating multiple large tables using CDP Public Cloud Replication ManagerYou can create multiple replication policies to replicate multiple large HDFS     directories, Hive external tables, or HBase tables using Replication Manager in CDP Public     Cloud.Tracking, monitoring, and troubleshooting replication policiesAfter you create a replication policy, you can track the replication policy job     progress, monitor the status of the replication policies, and troubleshoot the failed     replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager.