Azure Load Balancers in Data Lakes and Data HubsCloudera Docs
Azure Load Balancers in Data Lakes and Data Hubs
The Azure Load Balancer is used in multiple places in CDP Data Lakes
  and Data Hubs. It is used as a frontend for Knox in both Data Lakes and Data Hubs, and for Oozie
  HA in HA Data Hubs.
The following table describes all use cases where an Azure Load Balancer is used in
   Data Lakes and Data Hubs running on Azure: 

CDP component
Azure Load Balancer use case



Data Lake
A load balancer is configured in front of Knox for Data Lakes of all shapes.


HA Data Hub
A load balancer is configured for all Data Hubs created from a default template where
        Knox and/or Oozie is running in HA mode.This can be overridden by setting the
         “enableLoadBalancer” setting in a custom template to “false”.


An environment with Public Endpoint Access Gateway enabled
When the Endpoint Gateway is enabled, Load balancers are created in front of Knox for
        all Data Lakes and Data Hubs attached to the environment.


In the event that a Data Lake or Data Hub uses private networks (meaning the “Create
   Public IPs” option is disabled during environment creation and the Public Endpoint Access Gateway
   is not enabled), an internal load balancer is created for ingress traffic to Knox in all Data
   Lakes and in Knox HA Data Hubs running in that environment.
Because CDP uses a Standard SKU Azure Load Balancer, the private load balancer does
      not allow for public egress, and a public load balancer is required for public outbound
      destinations as described in the Azure network reference architecture. If you
      are creating an environment with an existing network of your own configuration, which is
      assumed to be fully private (the "Create Public IPs" option and Public Endpoint Access Gateway
      are disabled), it is your responsibility to create egress connectivity for the required
      subnets in your VNet. This can be accomplished through a NAT gateway setup or user-defined routing. 
If you want CDP to create a secondary load balancer for egress in an existing
      network of your own configuration, be aware that it requires certain public IP permissions
      that are granted as part of the required Azure permissions. However, you can
      create this secondary public egress load balancer when you create an Azure environment through
      the CLI with the options –no-enable-outbound-load-balancer and
        –enable-outbound-load balancer. The secondary public egress load balancer
      created by CDP has only outbound rules defined, and does not handle ingress traffic. 
This is illustrated in the following diagram: 


If you are creating a new network during environment registration, CDP ensures that egress
      connectivity is available. If the "Create Public IPs" option and Public Endpoint Access
      Gateway are disabled in your network, a separate load balancer is created for egress, though
      this load balancer requires certain public IP permissions that are granted as part of the
        required Azure permissions. If either "Create
      Public IPs" or Public Endpoint Access Gateway is enabled, then a public load balancer is
      created to handle both public ingress to port 443 and public egress. 
noteWhen an Azure VNet has both a NAT Gateway and a public load balancer for outbound
   connectivity, the NAT Gateway takes precedence. For more information, see Design virtual networks with NAT gateway.

