Public Endpoint Access GatewayCloudera Docs
Public Endpoint Access Gateway
If the network into which you are deploying your CDP environment does not have
  pre-established connectivity with your corporate network, enabling the Public Access Gateway can
  reduce the complexity users face when interacting with the CDP endpoints. 
notePublic Endpoint Access Gateway is only available for AWS and Azure environments. Support for
   GCP is currently available as a preview.
The recommended way to deploy production-ready CDP environments is to deploy them on
   private networks, but this additional security makes it difficult for users to access UIs and
   APIs without configuring complex network connectivity between users and internal cloud provider
   networks. The Public Endpoint Access Gateway provides secure connectivity to UIs and APIs in Data
   Lake and Data Hub clusters deployed using private networking, allowing users to access these
   resources without complex changes to their networking or creating direct connections to cloud
   provider networks. 
You can enable the Public Endpoint Access Gateway when registering your AWS or Azure
   environment in CDP. The gateway interfaces the Knox service, which is automatically integrated
   with your identity provider configured in CDP, allowing you to authenticate using your SSO
   credentials without any additional configuration. All communication with the gateway is over TLS,
   so connections are secure. You can control the IP ranges from where connections to the gateway
   can be established by configuring your security groups.
The following diagram illustrates this setup:



noteThe gateway provides secure connectivity to UIs and APIs. All Knox-enabled endpoints are
   supported. The gateway does not cover SSH or data access paths (such as Kafka Broker and NiFi
   Site2Site endpoints). Cloudera recommends that you set up connectivity between private networks
   in the public cloud and internal customer networks for secure and fast Kafka and NiFi
   deployments. 


Enabling Public Endpoint Access Gateway for AWS
You can enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway during AWS environment registration after
  enabling Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM).
Once activated, the gateway will be used for the Data Lake and all the Data Hubs within the
   environment. There is no way to activate it on a per Data Lake or per Data Hub level. Once it is
   enabled for an environment, there is no way to deactivate it. The gateway can be used either with
   an existing VPC or with a new VPC created by CDP.
Prerequisites

If you choose to enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway, CDP will create two AWS
    network load balancers (AWS NLB) per cluster (that is for each Data Lake and Data Hub). Make
    sure that your AWS NLB limits allow for the load balancer creation.
If you are using your existing network, you should have at least 2 public subnets
    in the VPC that you would like to use for CDP. The  availability zones of the public and private
    subnets must match. 

Steps 

CDP UICDP CLI
When registering your AWS environment, make sure to do the following:

On the Region, Networking, and Security page, select your existing VPC or
    select to have a new VPC created.
If you selected an existing VPC, select at least two existing private subnets (or
    at least three subnets if you would like to provision Data Warehouse instances). 
The Enable Cluster Connectivity Manager option is enabled by default to
    enable communication via private subnets. noteIn spite of the warning that you see on the UI,
     with the Public Endpoint Gateway enabled, you do not need to set up any additional connectivity
     in order to use CCM. 
Click on Enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway to enable it. This enables
    UIs and APIs of the Data Lake and Data Hub clusters to be accessible over the internet.
If you selected an existing VPC, under Select Endpoint Access Gateway
       Subnets, select the public subnets for which you would like to use the gateway. The
      availability zones of the public subnets must be the same as the availability zones of the
      private subnets selected under Select Subnets.


Under Security Access Settings, make sure to restrict access to only be
    accepted from sources coming from your external network range.noteThe security access settings
     do not apply to the network load balancer used by the Public Endpoint Access Gateway, but they
     apply to the instances that are running in private subnets and to which the Public Endpoint
     Access Gateway routes traffic. Therefore the security access settings should allow the users’
     public IP ranges to be able to connect through the public load balancer.
Finish registering your environment.


During environment registration via CDP CLI, you can optionally enable public
   endpoint access gateway using the following CLI parameters: 
--endpoint-access-gateway-scheme PUBLIC 
--endpoint-access-gateway-subnet-ids subnet-0232c7711cd864c7b subnet-05d4769d88d875cda 
The first parameter enables the gateway and the second one allows you to specify public
     subnets. The availability zones of the public subnets must be the same as the availability
     zones of the private subnets specified under --subnet-ids. For example:
cdp environments create-aws-environment \
--environment-name gk1dev \
--credential-name gk1cred \
--region "us-west-2" \
--security-access cidr=0.0.0.0/0 \
--authentication publicKeyId="gk1" \
--log-storage storageLocationBase=s3a://gk1priv-cdp-bucket,instanceProfile=arn:aws:iam::152813717728:instance-profile/mock-idbroker-admin-role \
--vpc-id vpc-037c6d94f30017c24 \
--subnet-ids subnet-0232c7711cd864c7b subnet-05d4769d88d875cda \
--endpoint-access-gateway-scheme PUBLIC \
--endpoint-access-gateway-subnet-ids subnet-0232c7711cd864c7b subnet-05d4769d88d875cda \
--free-ipa instanceCountByGroup=1 \
Equivalent CLI JSON for an environment request looks like this: 

"endpointAccessGatewayScheme": "PUBLIC",
"endpointAccessGatewaySubnetIds": 
       ["subnet-0232c7711cd864c7b", 
       "subnet-05d4769d88d875cda"],




Enabling Public Endpoint Access Gateway for Azure
You can enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway during Azure environment registration
  after enabling Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM).
Once activated, the gateway will be used for the Data Lake and all the Data Hubs
   within the environment. There is no way to activate it on a per Data Lake or per Data Hub level.
   Once it is enabled for an environment, there is no way to deactivate it. The gateway can be used
   either with an existing VNet or with a new VNet created by CDP.
If you choose to enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway, CDP will create two Azure
   load balancers per cluster (that is, two for each Data Lake and Data Hub). 
Steps 

CDP UICDP CLI
When registering your Azure environment, make sure to do the following:


On the Region, Networking, and Security page, select your existing VNet or
       select to have a new VNet created.


If you selected an existing VNet, select at least one existing private subnet (or
       at least three subnets if you would like to provision Data Warehouse instances). 


The Enable Cluster Connectivity Manager option is enabled by default to enable
       communication via private subnets. 
Note: In spite of the warning that you see on the UI, with the Public Endpoint
       Gateway enabled, you do not need to set up any additional connectivity in order to use
       CCM.


Click on Enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway to enable it. This enables
       UIs and APIs of the Data Lake and Data Hub clusters to be accessible over the internet.




Under Security Access Settings, make sure to restrict access to only be
       accepted from sources coming from your external network range.noteThe security access
        settings do not apply to the load balancer used by the Public Endpoint Access Gateway, but
        they apply to the instances that are running in private subnets and to which the Public
        Endpoint Access Gateway routes traffic. Therefore the security access settings should allow
        the users’ public IP ranges to be able to connect through the public load
       balancer.


Finish registering your environment.



During Azure environment registration via CDP CLI, you can optionally enable public
     endpoint access gateway using the following CLI parameter:  
--endpoint-access-gateway-scheme PUBLIC
When enabling Endpoint Access Gateway, you should also enable CCM using the
      --enable-tunnel parameter.
For
     example:cdp environments create-azure-environment 
...
--enable-tunnel
--endpoint-access-gateway-scheme PUBLIC 
Equivalent CLI JSON for an environment request looks like this: 
cdp environments create-azure-environment
...
"enableTunnel": true,
"endpointAccessGatewayScheme": "PUBLIC" 


