Troubleshooting CCMv2Cloudera Docs
Troubleshooting CCMv2
This page lists common issues related to troubleshooting workload connectivity using
  CCMv2.
Incorrect network setup



Reason for connection failure
How to fix the problem




For CCM to work, the agent must be able to connect to its counterpart running
          inside the Control Plane. A misconfigured network often blocks this path. This can happen
          in following ways:

Customer's network does not resolve CCM DNS addresses.
Customer's network does not allow outbound connections.
Customer's network does not allow outbound connections to Cloudera IPs.
Customer's network does not allow outbound connections to the required
           ports. 
Customer expects us to use a non-transparent proxy which does not allow
           connection to the required Cloudera IPs / ports. 
Customer expects us to use a non-transparent proxy which does deep-packet
           inspection to sniff underlying traffic and blocks CCM traffic.



Running the cdp-telemetry doctor command helps diagnose most
          problems of this category. See Collecting workload logs.
Fixing the problem usually means ensuring that you set up the outbound network
          access destinations that are listed as CDP prerequisites. See: 
AWS outbound network access destinations

Azure outbound network access destinations
GCP outbound network access destinations







Collecting workload logs
The easiest and recommended way to collect logs is to use the cdp-telemetry
     doctor tool.
The ccm module of the cdp-telemetry doctor tools
    collects all the information required on a given node.
cdp-telemetry doctor ccm status
cdp-telemetry doctor ccm report

noteUsing cdp-telemetry doctor should report all the information CDP support
     requires on the cluster for debugging. However, the tool needs to be launched on every node
     where an agent is expected to run.

To generate the diagnostic bundle, you need to ssh into each node of concern and
    invoke the following command:

cdp-telemetry doctor ccm report


Errors related to classic clusters
See Troubleshooting classic cluster registration errors.


Parent topic: Cluster Connectivity Manager