Configuring TLS/SSL client authentication for the Kafka Connect REST APICloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL client authentication for the Kafka Connect REST API
Learn how to configure TLS/SSL client authentication for the Kafka Connect REST
    API.

You can secure the Kafka Connect API by configuring the Kafka Connect roles to require SSL
        Client authentication. This can be done by setting the SSL Client
          Authentication property to required. When set to required, only clients that
        pass SSL client authentication will be able to access the Kafka Connect API. As a result,
        any client that you would like to give access to should have its certificate added to the
        Kafka Connect truststore. This includes Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) as well. Cloudera
        recommends that in secure environments only SMM is given access to the Kafka Connect API. 
In addition to setting client authentication to required, you may also want to consider
        setting up a firewall using third party tools to further secure access to the Kafka Connect
        API. Note however, that even with a firewall in place and SSL authentication set to
        required, if SMM is given access to the Kafka Connect API, then any user that has access to
        SMM will be able to interact with the Kafka Connect API. This is due to SMM not enforcing
        authorization checks when users are accessing Kafka Connect functionality within SMM. This
        is true for both the SMM UI and SMM REST API. As a result, caution is advised even if the
        Kafka Connect API itself is secured.
 Complete the following steps to set SSL Client Authentication to
        required.

Select the Kafka Service.Go to Configuration.Find the SSL Client Authentication property.Set the property to required.
important
The SSL Client Authentication property is available for both
              Broker and Connect roles. Make sure that you are configuring the property for the
              Kafka Connect role or for the role group that includes your Kafka Connect roles.

Click Save Changes.Restart the service.
Only authenticated clients are allowed to connect to the Kafka
      Connect API. 
If you are using SMM to manage and monitor Kafka Connect, and
      you are not using auto TLS, add SMM’s certificate to the Kafka Connect truststore. 

Parent topic: Kafka Connect REST API authentication