Configuring Streams Messaging Manager for Kafka ConnectCloudera Docs
Configuring Streams Messaging Manager for Kafka Connect
Learn how to set up Streams Messaging Manager for monitoring and managing Kafka
    Connect.

Cloudera recommends that you use Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) to manage and
        monitor Kafka Connect. In order for SMM to be able to interact with Kafka Connect, it must
        be configured and provided with the Kafka Connect instance's host, port, and protocol. This
        is done by configuring the Kafka Connect Host, Kafka
          Connect Port, and Kafka Connect Protocol SMM
        configuration properties. Configuring these properties enables the Connect view in SMM,
        which allows you to interact with Kafka Connect through a UI interface. Additionally,
        configuring these properties also enables you to use the SMM REST API to interact with Kafka
        Connect.
If the Kafka Connect Host property is left empty (default), SMM is
        automatically configured with the host, port, and protocol of the Kafka Connect instance
        belonging to the Kafka service selected with the Kafka Service SMM
        property. This means that if you want SMM to monitor and manage the Kafka Connect instance
        that belongs to the Kafka service that SMM depends on, you do not need to complete the
        following steps.


Select the Streams Messaging Manager service.

Go to Configuration.

Find and configure the following properties:


Kafka Connect HostEnter the hostname of the
                machine that the Kafka Connect role is deployed on. If you have multiple instances
                of the Kafka Connect role, you can choose to use any of them. Add a single hostname,
                as configuring multiple hostnames for high availability is currently not
                supported.
Kafka Connect PortEnter the port that the
                Kafka Connect role is using. The value of this property must match the port set in
                the Kafka Connect Rest Port or Secure Kafka
                  Connect Rest Port Kafka property. If the Kafka Connect role is not
                TLS/SSL enabled, use the port specified in Kafka Connect Rest
                  Port. If TLS/SSL is enabled for the Kafka Connect role, use the port
                specified in Secure Kafka Connect Rest Port.
Kafka Connect ProtocolSelect
                  http if SSL/TLS is not enabled for the Kafka Connect role.
                Select https if SSL/TLS is enabled for the Kafka Connect
                role.



Click Save.

Restart the service.

SMM is configured and is able to manage and interact with Kafka Connect.
Go to the SMM UI and access the Connect view from the left
      column. Alternatively, use the SMM REST API to interact with Kafka Connect.

Parent topic: Kafka Connect Setup