Configuration example for writing data to HDFSCloudera Docs
Configuration example for writing data to HDFS
A simple configuration example for the HDFS Sink connector.
The following is a simple configuration example for the HDFS Sink connector. Short
      descriptions of the properties set in this example are also provided. For a full properties
      reference, see the HDFS Sink properties reference. 

{
    "connector.class": "com.cloudera.dim.kafka.connect.hdfs.HdfsSinkConnector",
    "tasks.max": 1,
    "key.converter": "org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter",
    "value.converter": "com.cloudera.dim.kafka.connect.converts.AvroConverter",
    "value.converter.passthrough.enabled": true,
    "value.converter.schema.registry.url": "http://localhost:9090/api/v1",
    "topics": "avro_topic",
    "hdfs.uri": "hdfs://my-host.my-realm.com:8020",
    "hdfs.output": "/topics_output/",
    "output.writer": "com.cloudera.dim.kafka.connect.hdfs.avro.AvroPartitionWriter",
    "output.avro.passthrough.enabled": true,
    "hdfs.kerberos.authentication": true,
    "hdfs.kerberos.user.principal": "user_account@MY-REALM.COM",
    "hdfs.kerberos.keytab.path": "/path/to/user_account.keytab",
    "hdfs.kerberos.namenode.principal": "hdfs/_HOST@MY-REALM.COM",
    "hadoop.conf.path": "/etc/hadoop/"
  }




connector.class
 Class name of the HDFS Sink connector.
key.converter
The converter capable of understanding the data format of the key of each record on
            this topic.
value.converter
The converter capable of understanding the data format of the value of each record on
            this topic.note When the AvroConverter is used, you can specify Schema Registry
              properties to be used by the AvroConverter’s Schema Registry client. This is done by
              adding the required Schema Registry property as a suffix to the
                value.converter property. For example,
                value.converter.schema.registry.url. Properties defined this way
              are passed on to the Schema Registry client used by the AvroConverter. 
value.converter.passthrough.enabled
This property controls whether or not data is converted into the Kafka Connect
            intermediate data format before writing into an output file. Because in this example the
            input and output format is the same, the property is set to true, that is, data is not
            converted. 
value.converter.schema.registry.url
 The URL to Schema Registry. This is a mandatory property if the topic has records
            encoded in Avro format.
topics
List of topics to consume data from.
hdfs.uri
The URI to the namenode of the HDFS cluster.
hdfs.output
 The destination folder on the HDFS cluster where output files will reside. 
output.writer

Determines the output file format. Because in this example the output format is Avro,
              AvroPartitionWriter is used.
output.avro.passthrough.enabled 
This property has to match the configuration of the
              value.converter.passthrough.enabled property because both the input
            and output formats are Avro.
hdfs.kerberos.authentication
Enables or disables kerberos authentication.
hdfs.kerberos.user.principal
The user principal that the Kafka Connect role will use.
hdfs.kerberos.keytab.path
The path to the kerberos keytab file.
hdfs.kerberos.namenode.principal
The Kerberos principal used by the namenode. This is necessary when the HDFS cluster
            has data encryption turned on.
hadoop.conf.path
The path to the hadoop configuration files. This is necessary when the HDFS cluster
            has data encryption turned on.



Related informationHDFS Sink Connector Properties ReferenceParent topic: HDFS Sink