Enable multi-threaded facetingCloudera Docs
Enable multi-threaded faceting
Enabling multi-threaded faceting can provide better performance for field
        faceting.



When multi-threaded faceting is enabled, field faceting
                        tasks are completed in parallel with a thread working on every field
                        faceting task simultaneously. Performance improvements do not occur in all
                        cases, but improvements are likely when all of the following are true:
The system uses highly concurrent hardware.
Faceting operations apply to large data sets over
                                multiple fields.
There is not an unusually high number of queries
                                occurring simultaneously on the system. Systems that are lightly
                                loaded or that are mainly engaged with ingestion and indexing may be
                                helped by multi-threaded faceting; for example, a system ingesting
                                articles and being queried by a researcher. Systems heavily loaded
                                by user queries are less likely to be helped by multi-threaded
                                faceting; for example, an e-commerce site with heavy
                                user-traffic.
noteMulti-threaded faceting only applies to field faceting and not to
                            query faceting.
Field faceting identifies the number of
                                    unique entries for a field. For example, multi-threaded faceting
                                    could be used to simultaneously facet for the number of unique
                                    entries for the fields, "color" and "size". In such a case,
                                    there would be two threads, and each thread would work on
                                    faceting one of the two fields.
Query faceting identifies the number of
                                    unique entries that match a query for a field. For example,
                                    query faceting could be used to find the number of unique
                                    entries in the "size" field that are between 1 and 5.
                                    Multi-threaded faceting does not apply to these operations.





To enable multi-threaded faceting, add facet-threads to
                    queries.

 If facet-threads is omitted or set to 0, faceting is
                        single-threaded. If facet-threads is set to a negative
                        value, such as -1, multi-threaded faceting will use as many threads as there
                        are fields to facet up to the maximum number of threads possible on the
                        system.

For example, to use up to 1000 threads, use a similar
                    query:http://localhost:8983/solr/collection1/select?q=*:*&facet=true&fl=id&facet.field=f0_ws&facet.threads=1000


