January 2023Cloudera Docs
January 2023
Notable changes, improvements, and new features for Streams Messaging and Streaming
  Analytics components in the January 2023 release.
Parent topic: What's new in CSP Community Edition
Streams Messaging
What's new in Kafka, Kafka Connect, Schema Registry and Streams Messaging
    Manager.
Kafka and Kafka Connect

Kafka rebase to 3.1.2

Kafka shipped in this version of CSP Community Edition is based on Apache
              Kafka 3.1.2 (previous version was 2.8.1). For more information, see the official Apache Kafka documentation.

New Kafka Connect connectors
The following new Kafka connect connectors are introduced:
HDFS Stateless Sink
Influx DB Sink
Debezium Db2 Source 
importantIf you want to deploy an instance of the Debezium Db2 Source
              connector, ensure that you first install the Db2 JDBC driver. For more information,
              see Setting up connectors that use JDBC
              drivers.
Syslog TCP Source connector 2.0.0.
The Syslog TCP Source Kafka Connect connector is updated to version 2.0.0. The
            following notable changes and improvements are made:
Three new properties are added, these are as follows:
Max Batch SizeThis property controls the maximum number of
                      messages to add to a single batch of messages. This is a required property.
                      Its default value is 1.
Authorized Issuer DN Pattern and Authorized Subject
                      DN PatternThese properties allow you to enable authorization for
                      incoming TLS connections. Both properties accept regular expressions as a
                      value. The configured regular expressions are applied against the
                      Distinguished Names of incoming TLS connections. If the Distinguished Names do
                      not match the pattern, the following message is logged and the messages do not
                      get forwarded to Kafka.Error: authorization failureBoth
                      properties are optional and are set to .* by
                    default.

The Max Number of TCP Connections property is replaced by the
                  Max Number of Worker Threads property.Similarly to Max
                    Number of TCP Connections, Max Number of Worker
                    Threads is also used to specify the number of TCP connections, but
                  instead of exactly specifying the number of allowed connections, you now specify
                  how many worker threads are reserved for TCP connections. Note that a single
                  worker thread is capable of handling multiple connections. This is a required
                  property. Its default value is 2.
Existing version 1.0.0. connectors will continue to function. Upgrading them,
                however, is not possible. If you want to use the new version of the connector, you
                must deploy a new instance of the connector. 
Deploying a version 1.0.0. instance of the connector is no longer possible.

AvroConverter support for KConnect logical types
The AvroConverter now converts between Connect and Avro temporal and decimal
            types.
Expose log directory total and usable space through the Kafka API
KAFKA-13958 is backported in Kafka shipped with this version
            of CSP Community Edition. As a result, the Kafka API now exposes metrics regarding the
            total and usable disk space of log directories. The information on log directory space
            is collected by SMM and is exposed on the SMM UI. Specifically, you can now view the
            current log size of topics as well as the total log size and remaining storage space of
            brokers. For more information on how you can monitor log size metrics on the SMM UI, see
              Monitoring log size information in the Cloudera
            Runtime library.


Schema Registry

Support for alternative jersey connectors in SchemaRegistryClient
connector.provider.class can be configured in Schema Registry Client. If it is
            configured, schema.registry.client.retry.policy should also be configured to be
            different than default.
This also fixes the issue with some 3rd party load balancers where the client is
            expected to follow redirects and authenticate while doing that. 
Schema Registry CDC support - change default schema compatibility
When a new Avro schema is created and its compatibility is not explicitly set, then a
            default compatibility value is used. Until now, that value was always BACKWARD. After
            this change, users on the server side can configure the default value.


Streams Messaging Manager

Improved alter topic functionalities
You can now increase the number of partitions of a topic (but not decrease). The
            option is available on the Configs tab on the Topic Details page.
Partition Assignment tab on the Topic Details page
The Assignment tab, on the topic details page, shows the current state of the
            partitions and replicas of the topic. It shows some topic-level statistics and the
            replica assignment of all partitions. 
Added sorter functionality to partition lists in SMM UI
The SMM UI contains Brokers and Topics pages where records contain broker or topic
            specific partition lists and their profile pages as well. All partition list columns
            become sortable.
Improved SMM UX for Kafka Connectors configuration
The connector selection and connector configuration workflow steps are now separated
            into two different steps. Search and autocomplete are now available for Connect
            configuration keys. The help icon provides detailed information about each configuration
            key. The data type of the configuration values can be chosen from the options menu. For
            more information, see Setting connector configurations in the Cloudera
            Runtime library.
Added partition log-size information to the SMM UI
The SMM UI shows log-size related information about brokers, topics, and partitions.
            Furthermore, warning messages appear when log directory related errors are reported by
            Kafka. 
SMM connector profile shows connector level error
Errors causing the whole connector to fail are now displayed on the connector profile
            page if available.
Data explorer allows specifying consumer isolation.level 
"/api/v1/admin/topics/{topicName}/partition/{partitionId}/payloads" endpoint has a new
            parameter: "consumerIsolationLevel". The accepted values are "read_committed" and
            "read_uncommitted". This sets the "isolation.level" config for the KafkaConsumer used
            for retrieving messages. The default value is "read_uncommitted". The isolation level
            can also be configured using a newly introduced drop-down menu available on the Data
            Explorer page of a topic.
The Data Explorer page has a new design
The Data Explorer now uses the “from offset” and “record limit” parameters to select
            an offset window to query.
SMM UI Data Explorer shows null values explicitly
Data Explorer in the SMM UI now displays 'null' with italic style applied when the
            value is null rather than an empty value.
SMM uses a specific REST API to fetch list of topics
SMM Connect page now uses the Connect active topic tracking feature to list the topics
            used by the Connectors instead of the connector configuration's topic property. Sink
            Connectors show up based on which topics they consumed from (regardless of whether
            "topics" or "topics.regex" config was used), and Source Connectors show up based on
            which topics they produced into.
Improved configuration of SMM Kafka interceptors
New configuration prefix for SMM monitoring interceptor's background producer:
            "smm.monitoring.interceptor.producer.".
Clients that use either of the SMM monitoring interceptors
            (MonitoringConsumerInterceptor, MonitoringProducerInterceptor) use a background producer
            to push client metrics into Kafka every 30 seconds. This background producer now can be
            configured by passing Producer Configurations to the client that uses the interceptor
            with the "smm.monitoring.interceptor.producer." prefix. The prefix is trimmed and the
            remaining part of the configuration is passed to the background producer. For instance,
            if the user wishes to configure the "batch.size" property for the background producer,
            the following configuration should be passed:
            "smm.monitoring.interceptor.producer.batch.size".
There is a different behavior, however, with the "client.id" property. If the user
            does not provide a configuration to the client id
            (smm.monitoring.interceptor.producer.client.id), the default is used, which is:
            "smm-monitoring-interceptor".
SMM Data Explorer shows JSON output in pretty printed format
SMM Data Explorer can show JSON output in pretty printed format by using the "JSON
            Pretty Print" deserializer.



Related informationCloudera Runtime 7.2.16 Release Notes
Streaming Analytics
What's new in SQL Stream Builder.

Apache Flink upgrade
Apache Flink 1.15.1 is supported in the Streaming Analytics 7.2.16 cluster
          definition.
For more information on what is included in the Apache Flink 1.15 version, see the Apache Flink 1.15.1 Release Post and the Apache Flink 1.15 Release Notes
Reworked Streaming SQL Console
The User Interface (UI) of SQL Stream Builder (SSB), the Streaming SQL Console has been
          reworked with new design elements.


Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) support
Projects are introduced as an organizational element for SQL Stream Builder that allows
          you to create and collaborate on SQL jobs throughout the SDLC stages with source
            control.noteThe Source Control features are in Technical Preview and not ready for
            production deployment. Cloudera encourages you to explore these features in
            non-production environments and provide feedback on your experiences through the
              Cloudera Community Forums.
Schema Registry JSON support
JSON is added as a supported data format for Schema Registry.
Materialized View pagination
You can set a limit and offset for the results of Materialized View queries to filter
          the query results more easily when accessing them through the Query API.


Related informationCSP CE OverviewCSP CE Installation Guide