Post-upgrade tasks for Cloudera Data WarehouseCloudera Docs
Post-upgrade tasks for Cloudera Data Warehouse
Post-upgrade steps for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) vary depending on whether you are
  upgrading from 1.4.1 or 1.5.0. Perform the steps that are applicable to you.
Before you upgrade
Review the Release Notes to learn about the new features, fixes, and
    known issues in this release, and more importantly, the upgrade-related known issues.

Upgrading from 1.4.1
If you are upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.4.1, then
    in-place upgrade cannot be performed. You must deactivate and reactivate the environment in CDW
    and recreate Virtual Warehouses with the desired configurations. All customization and
    configurations are lost when you deactivate an environment. Perform the following steps after
    upgrading the platform:
Log in to the Data Warehouse service as DWAdmin.
Note any custom configurations or settings that you have made in CDW.
Deactivate the environment in CDW.
Reactivate the environment in CDW.
Create Virtual Warehouses with your desired configuration.

noteIf you upgrade the platform from 1.4.1 to 1.5.1, but
    you do not deactivate and reactivate your environment in CDW, you won't be able to create new
    Virtual Warehouses. Hue will also stop working. However, existing Virtual Warehouses will
    continue to operate using the existing runtime version and you will be able to query data using
    SQL client ssuch as Beeline, impala-shell, or any other JDBC/ODBC client tools.

Upgrading from 1.5.0
If you are upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.5.0, then you
    can perform in-place upgrade. In an in-place upgrade, you can directly upgrade the Database
    Catalog and Virtual Warehouses from the CDW UI without having to deactivate your environment.
    Perform the following steps after upgrading the platform:
Log in to the Data Warehouse service as DWAdmin.
Upgrade the Database Catalog by clicking  > Upgrade.
Upgrade individual Virtual Warehouses by clicking  > Upgrade.
Verify whether the upgrade is successful by checking the version information on the
      Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse details page by clicking  > Edit on the Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse tile.


What changes after the upgrade

Starting with 1.5.1, Data Analytics Studio (DAS) has been deprecated and completely removed
     from CDW. After you upgrade the platform, any running DAS instances will be removed from the
     cluster. Cloudera recommends that you use Hue for querying and exploring data in CDW.
If you upgrade the platform from 1.5.0 to the latest release, then the configuration of an
     existing environments stays the same as before. Configurations such as default file format,
     compression type, and transactional type are not copied from the base cluster. To copy
     configurations from the base cluster, you must reactivate the environment.



Related informationLearn more about the CDW upgrade processActivating OpenShift environments on CDWActivating Embedded Container Service environments in CDWParent topic: Upgrading