



Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedMicrosoft Azure








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure




Before You Deploy Cloudera Manager and CDH


Important: Before using Altus Director to deploy clusters, make sure at least one VM has been manually deployed from the Azure portal into the
Azure subscription you intend to use for your cluster. For more information see Allowing Access to VM
Images.
This topic describes how to set up Cloudera Manager and a CDH cluster in Microsoft Azure using the Altus Director web UI. The following resources must be created and prerequisites must be met before
beginning the deployment:

An AD application and a service principal for the AD application. The AD application must have the contributor or similar role so that it
has permission to create and delete resources in the subscription.
A virtual network and network security group that is readily available for the cluster to use.
The virtual network configured to use a customer-provided DNS service that supports reverse lookup. If using the provided DNS service setup guide, the VM that provides the
DNS service must be created and running.
Resource group to house cluster VMs.
An Availability Set created in corresponding resource groups to house cluster VMs.
Altus Director server VM.
Altus Director server installed and running.
Altus Director server access to the Azure virtual network (VNet).
Database server that is readily available and reachable from the VNet to be used by cluster nodes.

Details of setting up individual items above is covered in earlier sections.



Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Microsoft Azure

This section describes how to create a cluster using the advanced setup procedure in the Altus Director UI. For the simple setup procedure, see Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings.
To deploy Cloudera Manager and CDH on an Azure VM instance, begin by creating an environment as described in Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure. The environment defines common settings, like region and key pair, that Altus Director
uses with Azure.
To deploy Cloudera Manager and launch CDH clusters on Azure, perform the following steps:

Open a web browser and go to the private IP address of the instance you created running Altus Director server. Include port 7189 in the address, for example:
http://192.0.2.0:7189.
In the Altus Director login screen, enter admin in both the Username and the Password fields.
In the Altus Director Welcome screen, click Let's get started. This opens a wizard for adding an
environment, Cloudera Manager, and a CDH cluster.
Click Continue to add Cloudera Manager.
In the Add Cloudera Manager screen:

Enter a name for this deployment of Cloudera Manager in the Cloudera Manager name field.
In the Instance Template field, select Create New Instance Template.
The Instance Template model screen displays.


In the Instance Template model screen:

In the Instance Template name field, enter a name for the template.
In the VirtualMachine Size field, select one of the available sizes.
In the Image field, select one of the available images or use this format to define any Azure Marketplace VM image inline (replace the italicized
values with the actual names for the publisher, offer, sku, and version):
/publisher/publisher/offer/offer/sku/sku/version/version
In the Tags field, add one or more tags to associate with the instance.
In the Compute Resource Group field, enter the name of the resource group you created earlier to house the VM.
In the Virtual Network Resource Group field, enter the name where the virtual network resource resides.
In the Virtual Network field, enter the name of the virtual network.
In the Subnet Name field, enter the name of the subnet you want to use.
In the Host FQDN suffix field, enter the name of the host FQDN suffix you want your cluster host to use. This is the DNS domain of your cluster
hosts.
In the Network Security Group Resource Group field, enter the name of the resource group where the network security group resource resides.
In the Network Security Group field, enter the name of the network security group.
Select Yes in the Public IP field if you want to assign a public IP address to the VM. The default value is
No.
In the Availability Set field, enter the name of the availability set you created in earlier steps. Note that there are two types of Availability
Sets: managed (aligned) and unmanaged (classic). For more information see How to Use Availability Sets in the Microsoft Azure documentation.
In the Instance name prefix field under Advanced Options, enter the desired instance name prefix.
In the Storage Account Type field, select Premium_LRS. For instance templates intended for worker nodes, you can
select Standard_LRS. See the Cloudera Reference Architecture for Microsoft Azure Deployments for details on supported storage account types and configurations.
In the Data Disk Count field in Advanced Options, enter the number of data disks to attach for the VM.
In the Data Disk Size in GiB field, leave the value at 1024 or pick from the dropdown of available sizes.
Leave the SSH username field blank to use the username you set when you created the environment at step 9.a on the page Adding an
Altus Director Environment on Azure.
In the Bootstrap script field in Advanced Options, paste or upload the desired custom bootstrap script.
Important: If you created a DNS service following the DNS service setup guide, use this bootstrap script to ensure that the DNS record is updated
correctly.




Select Use Virtual Machine Scale Set (VMSS) in Advanced Options if you want to use a VMSS for the group.
Azure VMSS is a set of identical VMs that can be created and managed as a group. For more information about VMSS, see Virtual Machines Scale Sets in the Microsoft Azure documentation.
For more information about using VMSS in Altus Director, see Using Automatic Instance
Groups.



In the Desired License Type field, select one of the following license types:

Cloudera Enterprise: Includes the core CDH services (HDFS, Hive, Hue, MapReduce, Oozie, Sqoop 1, YARN, and ZooKeeper) and, depending on the license edition, one or more additional
services (Accumulo, HBase, Impala, Navigator, Solr, or Spark). For more information on Cloudera Enterprise licenses, see Managing Licenses in the Cloudera Manager documentation.
Cloudera Enterprise Trial: A 60-day trial license that includes all CDH services.
Cloudera Express: No license required.




To enable usage-based billing, you must have a Cloudera Enterprise license and a billing ID provided by Cloudera. In the Add Cloudera Manager screen:

In the Desired License Type field, select Cloudera Enterprise.
In the License Key field, either select a Cloudera Enterprise license file to upload or select Direct Input and
input the license file text directly into the text area.
To enable usage-based billing, in the Billing ID field, enter the billing ID provided by Cloudera.



By default, the version of Cloudera Manager installed depends on the version of Altus Director you are using:




Altus Director version
Cloudera Manager version installed




Altus Director 2.0
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.5


Altus Director 2.1
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.7


Altus Director 2.2
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.8


Altus Director 2.3
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.10


Altus Director 2.4
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.11


Altus Director 2.5
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.12


Altus Director 2.6
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.13


Altus Director 2.7
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.14


Altus Director 2.8
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 5.15


Altus Director 6.0
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 6.0


Altus Director 6.1
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 6.1


Altus Director 6.2
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 6.2


Altus Director 6.3
Latest released version of Cloudera Manager 6.3




To install a version of Cloudera Manager higher or lower than the default version, perform the following steps:

In the Configurations section, check Override default Cloudera Manager repository.
In the Repository URL field, enter the repository URL for the version of Cloudera Manager to install. Repository URLs for versions of Cloudera Manager
5 have the form https://archive.cloudera.com/cm5/ followed by the operating system, operating system major version,
processor architecture, cm (for Cloudera Manager), and the Cloudera Manager major, minor, and (if applicable) maintenance release number. For example, for Cloudera Manager 5.5.4, the repository URL
is https://archive.cloudera.com/cm5/redhat/7/x86_64/cm/5.5.4/.
Note: The Cloudera Manager minor version must the same as or higher than the CDH minor version. For example, Cloudera Manager 5.5 cannot be used to
launch or manage a CDH 5.7 cluster, but Cloudera Manager 5.7 can be used with a CDH 5.7 or lower cluster.

In the Repository Key URL field, enter the URL for the repository key. Repository key URLs have the same form as repository URLs except they end with
the name of the key file instead of the Cloudera Manager version. For example, the repository key URL for any version of Cloudera Manager 5 on any supported version of Red Hat 7 is https://archive.cloudera.com/cm5/redhat/7/x86_64/cm/RPM-GPG-KEY-cloudera.


In the Add Cloudera Manager screen, click Continue.
At the Confirmation prompt, click OK to begin adding a cluster.
On the Add Cluster screen:

Enter a name for the cluster in the Cluster name field.
Enter the version of CDH to deploy in the Version field, or leave the default value. By default, the version of CDH installed depends on the version
of Altus Director you are using:




Altus Director version
CDH version installed




Altus Director 2.0
Latest released version of CDH 5.5


Altus Director 2.1
Latest released version of CDH 5.7


Altus Director 2.2
Latest released version of CDH 5.9


Altus Director 2.3
Latest released version of CDH 5.10


Altus Director 2.4
Latest released version of CDH 5.11


Altus Director 2.5
Latest released version of CDH 5.12


Altus Director 2.6
Latest released version of CDH 5.13


Altus Director 2.7
Latest released version of CDH 5.14


Altus Director 2.8
Latest released version of CDH 5.15


Altus Director 6.0
Latest released version of CDH 6.0


Altus Director 6.1
Latest released version of CDH 6.1


Altus Director 6.2
Latest released version of CDH 6.2


Altus Director 6.3
Latest released version of CDH 6.3




To install a version of CDH higher or lower than the default version, perform the following steps:

Enter the desired CDH version in the Version field of the Products section. For example, for CDH 5.4.8, enter
5.4.8.
Scroll down to Configurations (optional) and expand the section.
Click Override default parcel repositories.
Enter the repository parcel URL for the version of CDH you want to install. Parcel URLs for versions of CDH 5 have the form https://archive.cloudera.com/cdh5/parcels/, followed by the major, minor, and (if applicable) maintenance release number. For example,
the URL for CDH 5.4.8 is https://archive.cloudera.com/cdh5/parcels/5.4.8.
Note: The CDH minor version must not be higher than the Cloudera Manager minor version. For example, CDH 5.7 does not work with Cloudera Manager
5.5, but CDH 5.7 or lower works with Cloudera Manager 5.7.



In the Services section, select the services you want to install.
In the Instance groups area, create a new template for the groups or for each group and the number of instances you want.




Click Continue.
At the confirmation prompt, click OK to deploy the cluster. Altus Director displays a status screen.


When the cluster is ready, click Continue.





Categories: Altus Director | Azure | Configuring | Environment | Network | All Categories



Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings


Terminating an Azure
Deployment


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












