



Pausing Altus Director Instances | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation









































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Configuring and Running Altus Director








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Pausing Altus Director Instances

The Altus Director server can be stopped at any time to reduce costs, as can clusters running on Microsoft Azure. These actions are described in the sections below.


Pausing the Altus Director Server

Although you can stop and start the Altus Director server at any time, you should wait for running workflows to complete.
To start or stop the server, enter the following command:
$ sudo service cloudera-director-server [start | stop]


Pausing a Cluster in Azure

There are times when it makes sense to shut down a cluster and stop your Azure virtual machines. The cluster will not be immediately available while stopped and it cannot be used to
ingest or process data, but you won't be billed by Microsoft for virtual machines that are stopped and deallocated. Provisioned premium storage disks, and space used by standard storage disks will
continue to accrue charges.
Pausing a cluster requires using premium or standard storage disks for all storage, both on management and worker nodes. Data stored on ephemeral disks will be lost
after a cluster pause.
Pausing a cluster also requires that the private IP address for all Azure Virtual Machines be set to static.


Notes on Pausing a Cluster


Important: Azure virtual machines that are configured with static private IP addresses will retain their internal IP address and hostname as
long as the associated network interface object is not removed, so no reconfiguration of CDH is required after restart. If your nodes were provisioned via Altus Director, you should confirm that the
IP configuration of your hosts is set to static before shutting down your cluster. The default for the Altus Director Azure plugin is dynamic. If you need to change the IP configuration from dynamic to static it can be done via the Azure Portal or PowerShell.
Attention: Any data that is persisted to the ephemeral drive, typically mounted at /mnt/resource, will be lost
when the virtual machine is shut down. Using HDFS as an example, if /mnt/resource is included in the listing for dfs.datanode.data.dir/dfs_data_dir_list you will lose block replicas from HDFS, and if you shut down three or more virtual machines, you will lose all replicas of some percentage
of blocks. If dfs_name_dir_list/dfs.namenode.name.dir includes /mnt/resource you will lose the fsimage
file which is critical to the function of the HDFS NameNode.
Note: The Microsoft Azure Portal, CLI, or API can be used for Azure actions; shutting down the virtual machine locally with the shutdown command will leave the virtual machine in a billable state. The Cloudera Manager UI or start and stop API commands can be used for cluster actions.




Shutdown procedure

To pause the cluster, take the following steps:

Change all virtual machine’s private IP address from dynamic to static by following the instructions in the Important note paragraph above in Notes on Pausing a Cluster.
Stop the cluster
Stop Cloudera Management Service
Stop all cluster virtual machines, including the Cloudera Manager host





Startup procedure

To restart the cluster after a pause, the steps are reversed:

Start all cluster virtual machines
Start Cloudera Management Service
Start the cluster

Since the cluster was completely stopped before stopping the virtual machines, the cluster should be healthy upon restart and ready for use.



Considerations

After starting the virtual machines, Cloudera Manager and its agents will be running but the cluster will be stopped. There will be gaps in Cloudera Manager’s time-based
metrics and charts.
Dynamic public IP addresses will be different after virtual machine shutdown. Static public IP addresses can be configured to remain associated with a stopped virtual machine
at additional cost, but it isn’t necessary to maintain proper cluster operation.




Categories: Altus Director | Configuring | All Categories



Setting Altus Director Properties


Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active
Directory


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












