



Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedMicrosoft Azure








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances

The Altus Director Azure Plugin supports adding new VM images, regions, and instances by modifying configuration files. For more information see Altus Director Azure Plugin Config Files on the Cloudera GitHub site.
See the Cloudera Reference Architecture for
Microsoft Azure Deployments for the latest supported VM images, Azure regions, and instance types.


Configuring and Deploying to Azure US Government and Azure Germany
Regions


Configuring and Deploying to Azure U.S. Government Regions

Azure U.S. Government is supported with no additional configuration needed. Select azure-us-government in the Azure Cloud Environment field when adding a
new environment.



Configuring and Deploying to Azure Germany Regions

Azure Germany is supported with no additional steps. Select azure-germany in the Azure Cloud Environment field when adding a new environment.
Note: For Azure Germany deployments, the JDK for Altus Director must be Java SE 8 Update 101 (8u101) or higher so that the CA root certificate
authority called D-TRUST (used by Azure Germany API endpoints) is supported.





Deploying Clusters with Custom Images


Note: Cloudera recommends that you use one of the Cloudera CentOS Virtual Machine images as the base for your custom images.

Deploying custom images is supported by updating instance template fields:

Set the Image field to be the Resource Id for the custom image. The Resource Id is on the Custom Image’s Overview
pane and is in the format (replace italicized words with your actual values):
/subscriptions/subscription-id/resourceGroups/resource-group-name/providers/Microsoft.Compute/images/custom-image-name
Note: If you are using a configuration file, this field is named image.

Set the Use Custom Managed VM Image field to Yes. The custom image option is only supported with Managed Disks.
Note: If you are using a configuration file, this field is named useCustomManagedImage.

Set the Custom VM Image purchase plan field in this format (replace italicized words with your actual values):
/publisher/value/product/value/name/value
If there’s no plan leave the field blank.
Note: If you are using a configuration file, this field is named customImagePlan.

If the custom image has a data disk attached, then set dataDiskCount to 0. If you just comment it out, it will default to 5.
Note: dataDiskCount is found in the instance template section of the Altus Director configuration file, and on the
Create New Instance Template screen of the UI.






Categories: Altus Director | Azure | Configuring | Environment | Network | All Categories



Terminating an Azure Deployment


Important Notes About Altus Director and
Azure


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












