



Pausing a Cluster on AWS | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation












































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedAmazon Web Services (AWS)








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Pausing a Cluster on AWS

If all data for a cluster is stored on EBS volumes, you can pause the cluster and stop your AWS EC2 instances during periods when the cluster will not be used. The cluster will not be
available while paused and can’t be used to ingest or process data, but you won't be billed by Amazon for the stopped EC2 instances. Provisioned EBS storage volumes will continue to accrue charges.
Important: Pausing a cluster requires using EBS volumes for all storage, both on management and worker nodes. Data stored on ephemeral disks
will be lost after EC2 instances are stopped.



Shutting Down and Starting Up the Cluster

In the shutdown and startup procedures below, some steps are performed in the AWS console and some are performed in Cloudera Manager:

For AWS actions, use one of the following interfaces:

AWS console
AWS CLI
AWS API


For cluster actions, use one of the following interfaces:

The Cloudera Manager web UI
The Cloudera API start and stop commands






Shutdown procedure

To pause the cluster, take the following steps:

Stop the cluster (in Cloudera Manager).
Stop the Cloudera Management Service (in Cloudera Manager).
Stop all cluster EC2 instances, including the Cloudera Manager host (in AWS).





Startup procedure

To restart the cluster after a pause, the steps are reversed:

Start all cluster EC2 instances (in AWS).
Start the Cloudera Management Service (in Cloudera Manager).
Start the cluster (in Cloudera Manager).





More information

For more information about stopping the Cloudera Management Service, see Stopping the Cloudera
Management Service in the Cloudera Enterprise documentation.
For more information about restarting the Cloudera Management Service, see Restarting the Cloudera
Management Service in the Cloudera Enterprise documentation.
For more information about starting and stopping a cluster in Cloudera Manager, see Starting, Stopping, Refreshing, and Restarting a Cluster in the Cloudera Enterprise
documentation.
For more information about stopping and starting EC2 instances, see Stop and
Start Your Instance in the AWS documentation.




Considerations after Restart

Since the cluster was completely stopped before stopping the EC2 instances, the cluster should be healthy upon restart and ready for use. You should be aware of the following about the
restarted cluster:

After starting the EC2 instances, Cloudera Manager and its agents will be running but the cluster will be stopped. There will be gaps in Cloudera Manager’s time-based metrics and
charts.
EC2 instances retain their internal IP address and hostname for their lifetime, so no reconfiguration of CDH is required after restart. The public IP and DNS hostnames, however, will
be different. Elastic IPs can be configured to remain associated with a stopped instance at additional cost, but it isn’t necessary to maintain proper cluster operation.





Categories: AWS | Altus Director | Cloudera Manager | EBS Storage Volumes | Pausing a Cluster | All Categories



Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS


Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












