



Diagnostic Data Collection | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Diagnostic Data Collection

Cloudera Manager log files provide important information for Cloudera Support to use in analyzing problems or unexpected behavior with Cloudera Manager deployments or CDH clusters. Altus
Director triggers the collection of diagnostic data for deployments and clusters it manages. This helps prevent situations where a failed cluster has been terminated but Cloudera Support has no
diagnostic data or log files to help identify the cause of the failure. If you have a Cloudera Enterprise or Cloudera Enterprise Trial license, diagnostic data is collected and sent to Cloudera
Support automatically on cluster bootstrap or update failure. By default, diagnostic data is also downloaded to the Altus Director instance.
If Cloudera Manager cannot collect diagnostic data, no information is sent to Cloudera Support, and the Cloudera Manager service logs are downloaded to Altus Director instead of the
diagnostic data. The logs contain less information than the diagnostic data, but can still be useful to Cloudera Support for analyzing deployment and cluster behavior.
Note: If you are using a Cloudera Express license instead of a Cloudera Enterprise license, the Collect Diagnostic
Data action results in the downloading of Cloudera Manager service logs to Altus Director. These logs are not uploaded to Cloudera Support.

You can initiate diagnostic data collection manually through the Altus Director web UI or API. You can collect diagnostic data for an entire Cloudera Manager deployment or for a specific
CDH cluster.
For more information on how diagnostic data collection works in Cloudera Manager, see the Cloudera Manager documentation page Sending Usage and Diagnostic Data to Cloudera.


Manual Collection of Diagnostic Data

You can manually trigger the collection of diagnostic data using either the Altus Director web UI or the Altus Director API.


Using the Web UI

To trigger diagnostic data collection, perform the following steps:

Go to the Altus Director web UI page for the deployment or cluster.
Click the down arrow on the dropdown list to the right of the deployment or cluster name.
In the dropdown list, click Collect Diagnostic Data.


Altus Director makes an API call to the Cloudera Manager API collectDiagnosticData. If successful, Cloudera Manager sends the diagnostic data to Cloudera
Support and, if the download diagnostic data property is set to true in the Altus Director application.properties file, also downloads a zip file containing the diagnostic data for the deployment or cluster to the Altus Director EC2 instance. If diagnostic data
collection is unsuccessful, and the download diagnostic data property is set to true, Cloudera Manager downloads the Cloudera Manager
service logs to Altus Director.


Manually Triggering Collection of Diagnostic Data at Cluster Termination

When you terminate a Cloudera Manager deployment or CDH cluster in the web UI, the screen for confirming the termination includes a button that triggers collection of diagnostic
data:





Note: Diagnostic data collection is also triggered before termination when you invoke the terminate-remote command
with the Altus Director CLI. There is no separate CLI command to trigger collection of diagnostic data, so you must use the web UI or API to trigger diagnostic data collection without terminating the
deployment or cluster.





Using the API

To manually trigger collection of diagnostic data for Cloudera Manager deployments, use the API at http://cloudera_director_ip:port_number/api-console/index.html#!/deployments/collectDiagnosticData.
To manually trigger collection of diagnostic data for CDH clusters, use the API at http://cloudera_director_ip:port_number/api-console/index.html#!/clusters/collectDiagnosticData.



Status for Data Collection

While diagnostic data collection is in progress, the status of the deployment or cluster changes from its current state to Updating: Collecting diagnostic
data when you mouse-over the Status bar:


The cluster status is not actually updated; the updating message is displayed simply to inform that diagnostic data collection is in progress. Because diagnostic data collection does not change the
status of the cluster, when the data collection is complete, the deployment or cluster status message reverts to what it was before diagnostic data collection began.

If you click View Log Status on the deployment or cluster screen, the Diagnostic Log Summary is displayed, showing
information about the last diagnostic data collection:



If diagnostic data has never been collected for the deployment or cluster, the Diagnostic Log Status value is Not
Collected and there is no link to open the Diagnostic Log Status screen.




Configuring Diagnostic Data Collection

By default, Cloudera Manager sends diagnostic data to Cloudera Support and to Altus Director. You can configure diagnostic data collection on Cloudera Manager and Altus Director using
the procedures described in this section.


Configuring Upload of Diagnostic Data to Cloudera Support

The Cloudera Manager server property that determines whether diagnostic data is automatically sent to Cloudera Support has the display name Send Diagnostic
Data to Cloudera Automatically and the API name phone_home. The default value for this property is true. To disable diagnostic
data collection in Cloudera Manager, set this property to false. Set the property in Cloudera Manager by following these steps:

In Cloudera Manager, click Administration > Settings.
In the list of Filters in the lefthand pane, click Support.
Click the checkbox for the property Send Diagnostic Data to Cloudera Automatically to toggle the setting between true
and false.


For more information on the phone_home property, see the table in the Support section of Cloudera
Manager Server Properties.



Configuring Download of Diagnostic Data to Altus Director

Several Altus Director server configuration properties affect the way diagnostic data is handled. You can set these properties in the application.properties file located at /etc/cloudera-director-server/ on the Altus Director instance, or at the command line.

lp.debug.collectDiagnosticDataOnFailure: Determines whether automatic collection of diagnostic data occurs for cluster bootstrap or update failures. The
default value is true.
lp.debug.downloadDiagnosticData: Determines whether diagnostic data is downloaded to the Altus Director instance. The default value is true.
lp.remote.terminate.assumeYes: Determines whether Altus Director skips prompting the user to confirm termination when the terminate-remote command is invoked. If you set the property to true, termination proceeds even if diagnostic data collection has failed. The
default setting is false.
lp.debug.diagnosticDataDownloadDirectory: Sets a nondefault path for the download of diagnostic data for deployments and clusters. The default location
is /tmp. The directory where diagnostic data has been downloaded appears in the File Path field in the Diagnostic Log Summary.
lp.debug.createDiagnosticDataDownloadDirectory: Determines whether Altus Director creates the nondefault download directory specified in lp.debug.diagnosticDataDownloadDirectory if it does not exist. The default value is true.


For information about setting Altus Director properties by using the CLI or editing the application.properties file, see Setting Altus Director Properties.




Categories: Altus Director | Configuring | Reports | Support | Troubleshooting | All Categories



Opening Cloudera Manager


User Management


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












