



Migrating the Altus Director Database | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation















































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Configuring Storage for Altus Director








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Migrating the Altus Director Database

Altus Director provides a script to move Altus Director data from one database to another database. You can use the copy-database script to move data
from the default H2 database to a supported external database. For example, if you initially used the default H2 database file to store Altus Director server data but now want to start using an
external MySQL database, you can use the copy-database script to migrate Altus Director data from H2 to MySQL.
The copy-database script is available in Altus Director 6.0 and later versions. The copy-database script works with
any of the databases that Altus Director supports.
Depending on the OS where Altus Director is installed, you can find the copy-database script in the following directory:

RHEL or CentOS: /usr/lib64/cloudera-director/server/bin/copy-database
Ubuntu: /usr/lib/cloudera-director/server/bin/copy-database




Source and Destination Database

The copy-database script determines the source and destination databases based on properties files:


Source database. The copy-database script has an associated copy-database.properties
file that specifies the source database for the script. By default, the copy-database script uses the default H2 database file state.h2.db as the source database.
To use a different source database for the copy-database script, modify the properties in the copy-database.properties file.

Note: The copy-database script copies data from, but does not modify, the source database.


Destination database. The copy-database script uses the database configured for Altus Director as the destination
database. When you configure an external database for Altus Director, you set the database properties in the application.properties file. The copy-database script uses the database properties set in the application.properties file to connect to the configured database.

Note: When you use the copy-database script, you must ensure that the destination database is newly created and
empty.




The application.properties and copy-database.properties files are located in following directory in Altus Director:
/etc/cloudera-director-server/



Using the copy-database Script

To use the copy-database script, complete the following steps:

Stop the Altus Director server.

Create an external database and configure Altus Director to use the external database.
For information about configuring Altus Director to use an external database, see Configuring Storage for Altus
Director.

Run the copy-database script.
The copy-database script copies the data from the source database into the database configured for Altus Director.

Start Cloudera Altus Director server.



Note: If you cannot or prefer not to use the copy-database script, you can use a tool like SQuirreL SQL to migrate the Altus Director server data to an external database. For more information about using Squirrel SQL to migrate Altus
Director data from H2 to MySQL, see Migrating the Altus Director Database from H2 to MySQL Without Using the
copy-database Script.




Categories: Altus | Cloud | Configuring | Databases | Director | EBS Storage Volumes | Storage | All Categories



Altus Director Database Encryption


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager
and CDH


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












