



Usage-Based Billing | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions














View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Usage-Based Billing

Altus Director 2.1 and higher includes an automated metering service that enables usage-based billing, so that you only pay for the services you use. This section describes how
usage-based billing works in Altus Director.


Prerequisites

The following are required for usage-based billing:

Altus Director 2.1 or higher
A billing ID provided by Cloudera. Your billing ID ensures that the Cloudera Manager instance and the clusters it manages are associated with your customer account, so that metering of
your cluster usage is accurate.
A Cloudera Enterprise license. When you provide a Cloudera Enterprise license and a billing ID during deployment of Cloudera Manager, usage-based billing is enabled for all clusters
created with that Cloudera Manager instance. If you do not add a billing ID, usage-based billing is not enabled, and you are charged for your clusters under normal node-based billing.
An account on a cloud service supported by Altus Director to deploy Cloudera Manager and CDH.

Outbound HTTPS connectivity from Altus Director to Cloudera's metering service at https://metering.cloudera.com
and the endpoints within AWS where usage information is collected. If outbound internet connectivity is restricted by your organization's security policies, then HTTPS connectivity can be narrowed to
the AWS IP address ranges.

At least 2 GB of free disk space should be available on the Altus Director server to store usage information until it can be transmitted to the metering service.





How Usage-Based Billing Works

When usage-based billing is enabled, Altus Director collects cluster usage information at regular intervals in the form of usage bundles. The usage bundles are sent to a metering service
that aggregates the information and determines the total bill.
The price for usage-based billing is determined by three factors:

The Cloudera hourly rate, which is determined by two factors:

Instance type
CDH services enabled on the cluster


Number of instances
Number of hours


Hours billed are based on the time the instance or service starts, not on the time of day. Portions of an hour are rounded up to the next full hour. For example, an instance that runs
from 1:40 pm. to 2:20 p.m. is charged for one hour.
Charging for instances in a cluster begins when bootstrapping is complete and the appropriate components have been installed and started on that cluster. The applicable rate is
determined by the components that are deployed on the cluster for a given hour, so the price can change when a component is added or removed that would affect the rate.
There is no charge for instances in a cluster where none of the services are running, and billing stops for all instances in the cluster if the cluster is stopped or terminated. Billing
and collection of usage information also stops if Altus Director is stopped. Billing resumes when Altus Director is started, but the billing hour for all billable clusters is reset from when Altus
Director restarts.
The price charged for a running cluster depends partly on the CDH services it contains. The following table shows the five types of clusters defined for billing purposes,
from least to most expensive.




Basic
Data Engineering
Operational DB
Analytic Database
Data Hub




"Core Hadoop"
"Core Hadoop" + Spark, Search
"Core Hadoop" + HBase, Spark, Search
"Core Hadoop" + Impala
All Capabilities





Usage-based billing only applies to your use of Altus Director, Cloudera Manager, and CDH services in the cloud. You are billed directly by your cloud provider for all cloud provider
services, such as the virtual instances and databases used by your clusters.
Contact Cloudera for additional details about pricing with usage-based billing.



Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH with Usage-Based Billing

When you create an instance of Cloudera Manager with a Cloudera Enterprise license and a billing ID, usage-based billing is enabled for all clusters you launch through that Cloudera
Manager instance.
You can deploy Cloudera Manager and create clusters with usage-based billing either through the Altus Director server web UI or with the Altus Director client and the bootstrap-remote command, as described in this section.


Enabling Usage-Based Billing with the Altus Director Server web UI

The procedure for deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH through the Altus Director web UI is described in Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS. To enable usage-based billing, follow the procedure as described
there, but be sure to provide a Cloudera Enterprise license and a billing ID as described in the steps for the Add Cloudera Manager screen.
If you choose Cloudera Enterprise, the License Key and Billing ID fields are
displayed. The Billing ID field is optional. Enter a valid license key, but do not enter a billing ID if you want your clusters to include Cloudera Enterprise
features but without usage-based billing.
Note: If you deploy Cloudera Manager with a Cloudera Enterprise license but without a billing ID, you can add a billing ID later and launch
clusters with usage-based billing. But you cannot add a Cloudera Enterprise license to an instance of Cloudera Manager that was created with a Cloudera Enterprise Trial or Cloudera Express license.
If your Cloudera Manager instance does not have a Cloudera Enterprise license, you must deploy another Cloudera Manager instance with a Cloudera Enterprise license in order to
use usage-based billing.






Enabling Usage-Based Billing with bootstrap-remote

The procedure for deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH through the Altus Director client using the bootstrap-remote command is described in Submitting a Cluster Configuration File.
There is a sample Altus Director
CLI configuration file for remote bootstrapping a cluster on AWS with usage-based billing enabled. This configuration file will create a basic cluster with a Cloudera Enterprise license and
billing ID. Edit the file to provide your license and billing ID, your credentials for your cloud provider, and configurations for your desired cluster services.




Managing Billing IDs with an Existing Deployment

To manage billing IDs for an existing deployment of Cloudera Manager, click Manage Billing on the admin menu in the upper right of the Altus Director
web UI.



The Manage Billing page displays information about Cloudera Manager instances and environments managed by Altus Director.
If a Cloudera Manager instance has a Cloudera Enterprise license and a billing ID, the billing ID is displayed on this page in redacted form, as shown here for the Cloudera Manager
instance CM01:



If a Cloudera Manager deployment has a Cloudera Enterprise license but does not have a billing ID, as shown above for the deployment CM02, the value of the Billing ID for that instance is Not Assigned and usage-based billing is not enabled. You can add a billing ID for that Cloudera Manager
deployment to enable usage-based billing. To add a billing ID to an existing Cloudera Manager deployment:

On the Manage Billing page, click Assign Billing ID to open the Update Billing ID dialog.
Enter a valid billing ID.
Click Update.


To replace a billing ID with a different one:

Click Update Billing ID.
In the Update Billing ID dialog, enter the new billing ID.
Click Update.





Troubleshooting Network Connectivity for Usage-Based Billing

If Altus Director is unable to connect to or upload usage information to the metering service, or is unable to connect to Cloudera Manager to obtain the usage information, an alert
appears under the bell icon at the upper right of the top banner in the Altus Director web UI, and the bell icon turns red. Click the icon to see the alert.
If Altus Director is unable to connect to or upload usage information to the metering service, the alert will say:

Altus Director is unable to send usage data to Cloudera’s billing service at https://metering.cloudera.com. Check that your network is configured to allow sending of usage data and
that Cloudera’s billing service is running.

If Altus Director is unable to connect to Cloudera Manager, the alert will say, for example (with actual values for the names of your Cloudera Manager instance and environment, and time elapsed):

Unable to connect to cm1 in env2 for at least 2 minutes 18 seconds. Check your deployment status. The deployment might have failed or might have a connectivity issue.


When an alert appears, check the network and security configuration where Altus Director is running:

Check that the firewall rules for your Altus Director instance (for example, the security group for an AWS EC2 instance) are configured to permit network access to the internet.
Check that the subnet for the Altus Director instance has a route to the internet.
Check in the Altus Director web UI to ensure that Altus Director is able to connect to the Cloudera Manager instance.
Open a shell on the Altus Director instance and try to ping a publicly-accessible URL, such as www.cloudera.com.
Using a machine in your local network environment (outside of the network environment where Altus Director is running), send a ping request from a web browser to the collection service
ping endpoint at this URL: https://metering.cloudera.com/api/v1/ping. If the metering service is not reachable,
the service might be down. Contact Cloudera Support.





Categories: Altus Director | Configuring | Installing | Usage-Based Billing | All Categories



Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure


Usage Bundles


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












