



Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedMicrosoft Azure








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL

A database server can be installed on the same host as Altus Director and DNS, or you can add your database server to a different host in the same virtual network as Altus Director and
the cluster. The supported databases are MySQL and PostgreSQL.
A dedicated database server is required for production clusters. The following steps are optional for non-production, proof-of-concept clusters.


Database Server Requirements

You can install a database server on the same host as the Altus Director server, a different host in the same Virtual Network as Altus Director and the cluster, or configure an
existing database. Whichever method you choose, these are requirements for the database server:

It must be JDBC accessible both locally and remotely.
The credentials provided to Altus Director must have superuser/administrator privileges.
Increase the connection count according to Cloudera documentation on MySQL Database or PostgreSQL Database.
Ensure sufficient CPU, memory, IOs, and bandwidth for the database server, especially if the database server is shared between multiple clusters.





Example for MySQL Installation

For MySQL, follow the instructions in Using MySQL for Altus Director
Server. Use the instructions for your specific version of MySQL, and keep in mind these additional requirements:

Your MySQL server must be in the same virtual network as the rest of the cluster.
Reference your MySQL server host by private IP address or an internal fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) that resolves to a private IP address.
To reference the MySQL server by internal FQDN, make sure the MySQL server internal FQDN is registered with the DNS server you configured in Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure.





Setting up Azure Database for MySQL

Beginning with Altus Director 6.2 you can use an Azure Database for MySQL instance for the Altus Director database, Cloudera Manager databases, and CDH component databases.
To use an Azure Database for MySQL instance in Altus Director, complete the following steps:


Create the database server in your Azure subscription.
You must create an Azure Database for MySQL server in your Azure subscription in order to use it in Altus Director. You can use the Azure portal or the Azure CLI to create the Azure
Database for MySQL server in your Azure subscription. For information about creating the server, see the instructions in the Azure Database for MySQL documentation.

Note: Cloudera recommends that you use VNet service endpoints for the Azure Database for MySQL instance. VNet service endpoints are not available
in the Basic pricing tier for Azure Database for MySQL. You must select the General Purpose or Memory Optimized pricing tier to use VNet service endpoints.



Configure the VNet and subnets that access the database.
Add the VNets or subnets that will need to access the MySQL instance to the Microsoft.Sql service endpoint.
The following screenshot shows subnets added to the Microsoft.Sql service endpoint:




Configure the connectivity for the MySQL instance.


On the Connection security page, set the following properties:

Allow access to Azure services. Set this property to OFF.
Enforce SSL connection. Set this property to DISABLED.


Use the Add existing virtual network link to add the VNets or subnets you want to use. You must have configured these VNets and subnets in the previous
step.
The following screenshot shows the properties in the Connection security page that you need to set on the Azure portal:




On the Server parameters page, set the wait_timeout property to 28800.
Setting the wait_timeout property to 28800 enables Cloudera Manager and CDH components to re-use existing database connections as expected.
The following screenshot shows the Server parameters page with the wait_timeout property set to 28800:






Configure Altus Director or Cloudera Manager or CDH to use the Azure Database for MySQL instance.
For instructions on configuring Altus Director to use the Azure Database for MySQL instance, see Configuring Altus Director Server to use the MySQL Database.
For instructions on configuring the database for Cloudera Manager or CDH, see Defining External Databases.

Note: When you configure Altus Director, Cloudera Manager, or CDH to use the database, make sure that you use the user@host format for the username, as noted in the Azure Database for MySQL
documentation.







Categories: Altus Director | Azure | Configuring | Environment | Network | All Categories



Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure


Setting Up a Virtual Machine for
Altus Director Server


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












