



Altus Director Usage Bundles | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation









































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Usage-Based Billing








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Altus Director Usage Bundles

An Altus Director usage bundle is a JSON document representing a snapshot in time of Cloudera Manager and cluster usage. It contains three sections: a metadata section, a Cloudera
Manager block, and an Altus Director block.
Note: All passwords and sensitive information included in Altus Director usage bundles are redacted.


Continue reading:

Metadata Section
Cloudera Manager Block
Altus Director Block
Usage Logging




Metadata Section

The short metadata section in a usage bundle contains:

The version of the metadata structure
The complete license key and billing ID for the deployment
The creation time of the bundle
A message ID structure, used by Cloudera's metering service for context and sequencing





Cloudera Manager Block

The Cloudera Manager block contains information queried from Cloudera Manager about itself and clusters that it manages.
Initial metadata in the block includes the metadata structure version and the host, port, and API version of Cloudera Manager itself.
Next, the block contains details about Cloudera Manager itself, as retrieved from its /cm/deployment API endpoint. See the Cloudera Manager REST API documentation for complete information. The data is retrieved from Cloudera
Manager using its export redacted view, which eliminates sensitive configuration information such as passwords. This deployment data includes information about all
clusters and their services, all hosts, and all management services. Some specific data items in the details are:

Cluster, service, and role names
Service and role configurations (redacted) and health statuses
Cloudera Manager's internal user accounts, with redacted passwords
Instances' Cloudera Manager host identifiers, private IP addresses, and private host names
Instances' core counts and memory sizes


Finally, the block includes time series data for the capacity and used capacity of each filesystem associated with the Cloudera Manager instance and with every instance that is part of a
cluster. The data covers the five minutes prior to the bundle's creation. See the Cloudera
Manager REST API documentation for complete information on the data structures in a time series. Instance private IP addresses and host names are included in the time series data.



Altus Director Block

The Altus Director block contains information queried from Altus Director itself about Cloudera Manager installations and clusters that it manages. For complete information on the data
structures described here, consult the Altus Director
API documentation or explore using the API console included with Altus Director, at the /api-console URL.
Initial metadata in the block includes the metadata structure version and the host, port, and API version of Altus Director itself. Ensuing details begin with the version of Altus
Director and the time when the block was created.
Next, the block includes the deployment template used to create the Cloudera Manager installation. The data retrieved from Altus Director here is redacted, eliminating potentially
sensitive information such as external database account details and inline scripts. Some specific data items are:

Redacted license and billing ID (which are available unredacted in the usage bundle metadata)
External Cloudera Manager database templates, if any
The Cloudera Manager instance template


After some deployment health and status information, details about the running deployment are included. As with the deployment template information, deployment information is redacted
to eliminate potentially sensitive information such as the Cloudera Manager administrator password. Some specific data items are:

The Cloudera Manager version and private IP address
Details about the instance running Cloudera Manager, including its public and private IP addresses and host names, information specific to the cloud provider such as virtual network
and subnet identifiers, its installed software capabilities, and its instance template
The Cloudera Manager port and administrative username


Next, the cluster templates for each of the clusters created by Altus Director are listed. As with other Altus Director API calls, cluster template information such as inline scripts
is redacted for security. Some specific data items are:

The cluster template name and list of services deployed
External service database templates, if any
Virtual instance groups and associated instance templates


Finally, after some cluster status and health information, details about each bootstrapped cluster are provided. Sensitive information is left out of these query results like the rest.
Some specific data items are:

Overall cluster health and individual service health checks
Installed software capabilities of each cluster instance





Usage Logging

Altus Director is capable of logging usage bundles and heartbeats as they exist immediately before submission to Cloudera's metering service. The logging is disabled by default, but it
can be enabled and configured to provide visibility into precisely what Altus Director is sending out.
To enable usage logging in the Altus Director server, locate the logback.xml file used to configure its logging system. The file is normally in /usr/lib/cloudera-director-server/etc
[check this]. Look for the configurations for the following loggers:

com.cloudera.director.metering.heartbeats
com.cloudera.director.metering.bundles


Change the level for each logger to INFO to enable usage logging. To disable usage logging, change the level back to
ERROR. After changing the level, restart Altus Director so that the change takes effect.
The logging configuration writes the JSON for heartbeats and usage bundles to a dedicated log file. Those comfortable with configuring the Logback logging system can make further changes
to have the information written elsewhere. Consult Logback documentation for the options available.
Usage logging increases the demand for file storage on the Altus Director instance. Do not enable it for long periods of time, to avoid running out of disk space.



Categories: Altus Director | Configuring | Usage-Based Billing | All Categories



Usage-Based Billing


Using Cloud Provider Regions


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












