



Altus Director Scripts | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Altus Director Scripts

Cloudera Altus Director does a lot of work automatically, but there are often unique customizations necessary for your environment. To that end, Altus Director offers the ability to run
scripts, supplied by you, at several points in the lifecycles of instances, deployments, and clusters.
Here are some reasons to have Altus Director run scripts:


To register custom DNS hostnames for instances
To add instances to an Active Directory domain
To install or update software packages, beyond what Altus Director normally handles
To configure instance networking in specialized ways


Altus Director always runs scripts with root permissions, so they have unfettered ability to make necessary changes. They are not limited in length, and do not conflict with other
mechanisms that cloud providers offer for running scripts, such as EC2 user data. A script may be written in any language that is executable from the command line. Often they are shell scripts, but
Python or other high-level scripting languages work as well.


Types of Scripts

This table lists the types of scripts that can be passed to Altus Director. Each type of script has a specific time when it runs, particular places where it runs, and a specific place to
specify it. Also, some scripts are not available through the Altus Director user interface.





Type
When it Runs
Where it Runs
Where to Specify
In UI




Bootstrap
Immediately after an instance becomes reachable
On each instance for an instance template
Instance template
Yes


Pre-terminate
Just before an instance is terminated
On each instance for an instance template
Instance template
No


Deployment post-creation
After deployment creation
On the instance running Cloudera Manager
Deployment template
No


Cluster instance-level post-creation
After cluster creation, before cluster post-creation scripts
On every cluster instance
Cluster template
No


Cluster post-creation
After cluster creation, after cluster instance-level post-creation scripts
On an arbitrary cluster instance
Cluster template
No


Cluster pre-terminate
Before cluster termination
On an arbitrary cluster instance
Cluster template
No







Notes on Script Execution

Altus Director needs to perform a small amount of work on an instance before running any scripts:


Versions of Altus Director prior to 6.1 use the operating system package manager to install the GNU screen utility. If installation of screen fails, the bootstrap process fails.
Versions of Altus Director starting with 6.1 no longer perform screen installation. However, they do disable the requiretty setting in
/etc/sudoers, if it is present.


The first scripts that Altus Director runs are bootstrap scripts. Bootstrap scripts are run when an instance is first allocated and are used to perform work related to the lifecycle of
the individual instance rather than the deployment or cluster lifecycle.
Deployment post-creation scripts are run after Cloudera Manager is running and configured, but before Altus Director updates itself with any changes Cloudera Manager may independently
and automatically make to its own configuration. Similarly, cluster post-creation scripts run after Cloudera Manager is configured to manage the cluster, but before Altus Director updates itself with
any changes Cloudera Manager may independently and automatically make to those configurations. In both cases, information that scripts draw from Altus Director might be out of date.
Altus Director selects an arbitrary cluster instance for running cluster post-creation and pre-terminate scripts. Therefore, these scripts should perform work that applies to the cluster
lifecycle as a whole, and not individual instances in the cluster, since each script runs on just one instance. If, before all scripts are complete, a chosen arbitrary instance fails, for example due
to an unexpected termination, Altus Director selects a new instance and resumes script execution.




Elements of a Script

At a minimum, the content of a script must be supplied either directly or by referring to a file path local to where Altus Director runs. If necessary, a script may simply download
another script from a URL and run it.
The following additional information may be optionally provided along with a script:


script ID: a unique identifier for the script, useful for tracing its execution in Altus Director logs
environment variables: a table of key-value pairs for environment variables to set before running the script


When you specify a script through the user interface, you cannot include a script ID or environment variables. Use a client configuration file or call the Altus Director API directly in
order to pass a script ID or environment variables. See the topic Client Configuration File Fields below to see how to supply the additional information in a client configuration file.


Pre-defined Environment Variables

Some scripts automatically have access to several environment variables defined by Altus Director alongside any others defined explicitly in script definitions. The variables are
oriented to make it easy to perform API calls to Cloudera Manager.





Variable
Example
Description
Available To




DEPLOYMENT_HOST_PORT
203.0.113.1:7180
The host and port used to connect to the Cloudera Manager deployment.
Deployment and cluster scripts


ENVIRONMENT_NAME
dir_cluster Environment
The name of the environment.
Deployment and cluster scripts


DEPLOYMENT_NAME
dir_cluster Deployment
The name of the Cloudera Manager deployment.
Deployment and cluster scripts


CLUSTER_NAME
dir_cluster
The name of the cluster. The Cloudera Manager API needs this to specify which cluster on a Cloudera Manager server to operate on.
Cluster scripts


CM_USERNAME
admin
The username needed to authenticate to Cloudera Manager.
Deployment and cluster scripts


CM_PASSWORD
admin
The username needed to authenticate to Cloudera Manager.
Deployment and cluster scripts








Exit Code

A script should return exit code 0 if its execution should be considered successful by Altus Director. When a script returns a nonzero exit code, Altus Director retries the script up to
a configurable number of times, in case the failure was due to a transient problem. When all script retries fail, Altus Director fails the process it is performing, such as bootstrapping a cluster.
If a script returns a reserved exit code (configurable, default 91), Altus Director does not retry the script and fails its current process immediately.



Client Configuration File Fields

Any type of script may be specified in a cluster configuration file to be used with the Altus Director client. A pair of fields in the appropriate template is available for providing
each type of script. One field is for specifying scripts by directly including their content, and the other by referencing local file paths. See the table below to identify the specific field name
for direct inclusion or path reference for each type of script. Both fields may be used for one type of script, in which case the scripts included directly are executed first. Each field value is a
list of scripts, and so within a field, scripts are executed in the order they are given.
A script can be specified simply by a string containing its content (for direct inclusion) or its path (for reference by path). To also specify a script ID or environment variables, use
an object with fields for those elements as well as the script content or path. The following example lists two bootstrap scripts by content, one as just the script itself, another as an object with
a script ID and environment variables:

bootstrapScripts: ["""#!/bin/sh
echo 'Hello World!'
exit 0
""",
  {
    id: bootstrapScript2,
    env {
      KEY1: VALUE1
      KEY2: VALUE2
    },
    content: "echo The values are $KEY1 and $KEY2"
  }
]

See the reference configuration files for more examples.





Type
Template
Field for Direct Inclusion
Field for Path




Bootstrap
Instance
bootstrapScripts
bootstrapScriptsPaths


Pre-terminate
Instance
preTerminateScripts
preTerminateScriptsPaths


Deployment post-creation
Deployment
postCreateScripts
postCreateScriptsPaths


Cluster instance-level post-creation
Cluster
instancePostCreateScripts
instancePostCreateScriptsPaths


Cluster post-creation
Cluster
postCreateScripts
postCreateScriptsPaths


Cluster pre-terminate
Cluster
preTerminateScripts
preTerminateScriptsPaths









Where Scripts Run on an Instance

By default, Altus Director uploads each script to the /tmp directory of the instance where it is to run. However, some security standards prohibit
execution of anything residing in the /tmp directory. Use the configuration property lp.ssh.tmpPath in the Altus Director
server's application.properties file to set a different directory for Altus Director to use for running scripts. See Setting Altus Director Properties for information on where the file is located and details
on how to set properties.
Setting this configuration property changes the execution location for all scripts run by Altus Director, not just those you supply, and for scripts in all clusters, deployments, and
instances managed by Altus Director. Ensure that the directory exists on all instances launched by Altus Director. Note that a bootstrap script cannot be used to create the directory, since the
directory existence is a precondition for running any scripts. Instead, use a custom image with the directory already in place, or some other mechanism.



Categories: Altus Director | Cloudera Manager | Configuring | All Categories



Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI


Terminating a Cluster


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












