



Setting up Azure Resources | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedMicrosoft Azure








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Setting up Azure Resources


This topic describes how to set up various resources required by Microsoft Azure:

Setting Up Resource Groups
Setting Up a Network Security Group
Setting Up a Virtual Network (VNet) and Subnet
Setting Up Availability Sets for Master Nodes and Worker Nodes




Setting Up Resource Groups

Altus Director requires you to set up resource groups that house the following cluster resources::

Azure virtual machines (VMs)
Azure virtual network (VNet)
Azure network security group (NSG)

These resources typically have different lifecycles, so you might want to locate each in a separate resource group for convenience. For simplicity, you can locate them in the same resource group
instead.


Creating a New Resource Group

To create a new resource group, perform the following steps:

In the left pane, click New.
Type resource group in the search box.
Click Resource Group in the search result.
Click Create.
Type in a name for the resource group.

Repeat these steps to create multiple resource groups for Azure resources.




Setting Up a Network Security Group

This section explains how to create a new network security group (NSG) in Azure.
Note: You must open the following ports if you are allowing access to the web UI from public IP addresses:

Altus Director - 7189
Cloudera Manager - 7180





Creating a New Network Security Group

To create a new network security group:

In the left pane, click New.
Type Network security group in the search box.
Click Network security group in the search result.
Click Create.
Type in a name for the network security group.
Type in a name for new resource group or select an existing resource group.
Click Create.
Once created, see How to manage NSGs using the Azure portal in the Microsoft Azure documentation for instructions on creating the rules in the network security group.








Setting Up a Virtual Network (VNet) and Subnet

Altus Director requires a virtual network and subnet to implement its networking environment. The networking environment must be set up for forward and reverse hostname resolution. For a
basic example for setting up forward and reverse hostname resolution, see Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure.
For an overview of virtual networks on Azure, see Virtual
networks.
To set up a new virtual network and its subnets, follow the steps below. Skip these steps if you are using an existing virtual network and subnet.

In the left pane, click New.
Type Virtual Network in the search box.
Click Virtual Network in the search result.
Click Create.
Type in a name for the virtual network and subnet
Type in a name for new resource group, or select an existing resource group.
Click Create.










Setting Up Availability Sets for Master Nodes and Worker Nodes

Azure uses Availability Sets to manage the availability of virtual machines. For best practices, in a CDH cluster, Cloudera recommends using one Availability Set for the master nodes and
one Availability Set for the worker nodes. An Availability Set should not be shared by more than one CDH cluster.
Read this Azure document for an overview
of Availability Sets on Azure.
To create an Availability Set:

In the left pane, click New.
Type Availability Set in the search box.
Click Availability Set in the search result.
Click Create.
Type in a name for the Availability Set.
Type in a name for new resource group or select an existing resource group.
Increase the fault domain and update domain to as large a size as possible.
Pick between a managed (aligned) or unmanaged (classic) Availability Set. A managed Availability Set supports the use of Managed Disks; an unmanaged Availability Set supports Unmanaged
Disks in Storage Accounts. For more information on Availability Sets, see Manage the availability of Windows virtual machines in Azure in the Microsoft Azure documentation.
Click Create.


After creating the Availability Set for master nodes, repeat the steps to create an Availability Set for worker nodes.





Categories: Altus Director | Azure | Configuring | Environment | Network | All Categories



Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director


Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












