



Frequently Asked Questions | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions














View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Frequently Asked Questions

This page answers frequently asked questions about Altus Director.


General Questions


Can I move Altus Director to a different instance?
In some circumstances, you might want to move Altus Director from the instance where it is installed to a different instance. This can be done much as it would be with any other
application. One straightforward procedure is to snapshot or image the current instance and deploy a new instance from it.
Cloudera recommends that you take a backup of the database before the migration to be safe. If you are using the H2 embedded database (which is not recommended
for production deployments), it resides on the file system, so a snapshot or image will include it. If you are using MySQL to host the Altus Director database, then the database resides elsewhere on
a database server. Backing up the Altus Director database in either case is an extra precaution, but isn't strictly necessary in order to move Altus Director over to the new instance.
Note: If you are using MySQL for the Altus Director database and the new Altus Director instance is in a new subnet, the security rules need to
allow instances in the new subnet to reach the MySQL server, whether in a provider database service or elsewhere.



Can master or worker roles be run on instances where Cloudera Manager is running?
No, CDH cluster entities cannot be run on the same instance as Cloudera Manager.


How can I reduce the time required for cluster deployment?
You can reduce cluster deployment time by using an Amazon Machine Image (AMI). For information on creating an AMI, see Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH.


How can I make Altus Director highly available?
Altus Director can set up highly available clusters in a Cloudera Manager deployment, but does not support a high availability setup for itself. You can make Altus Director more robust
by configuring it to use a backed-up, robust MySQL database server (one that is hosted, for example, on AWS RDS ) for its database instead of Altus Director's default H2 database. Then, if the
Director instance goes down, another instance can be spun up that references the same database. In this case, Altus Director has the ability to resume interrupted work.
For information on setting up highly available clusters in a Cloudera Manager deployment using Altus Director, see Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director.


How do I create instances in multiple availability zones in AWS EC2?
This is AWS-specific. Each subnet exists in only one availability zone, so if you want multiple availability zones for your instances, you need to create multiple instance groups, with
each one having a template that points to a different subnet.


How can I find a list of available AMIs?
Perform the following steps to generate a list of RHEL 64-bit images:

Install the AWS CLI.
$ sudo pip install awscli
Configure the AWS CLI.
$ aws configure
Follow the prompts. Choose any output format. The following example command defines table as the format.

Run the following query:
aws ec2 describe-images \
  --output table \
  --query 'Images[*].[VirtualizationType,Name,ImageId]' \
  --owners 309956199498 \
  --filters \
    Name=root-device-type,Values=ebs \
    Name=image-type,Values=machine \
    Name=is-public,Values=true \
    Name=hypervisor,Values=xen \
    Name=architecture,Values=x86_64
AWS returns a table of available images in the region you configured.







Categories: AWS | Altus Director | Deploying | FAQs | All Categories



Troubleshooting


Altus Director Glossary


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












