



Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation













































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedAmazon Web Services (AWS)








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources

You must set up a VPC and create an SSH key pair in the AWS environment before deploying Altus Director.

Continue reading:

Setting Up a VPC
Creating an SSH Key Pair




Setting Up a VPC

Altus Director requires an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) to implement its virtual environment. The Amazon VPC must be set up for forward and reverse hostname resolution.
Perform the following steps:

Log in to the AWS Management Console and make sure you are in the desired region. The current region is
displayed in the upper-right corner of the AWS Management Console. Click the region name to change your region.
In the AWS Management Console, select VPC in the Networking section.
Click Start VPC Wizard. (Click VPC Dashboard in the left side pane if the Start VPC Wizard button is not displayed.)
Select the desired VPC configuration. For the easiest way to get started, select VPC with a Single Public Subnet. Make sure that DNS Hostnames is set to Yes in the Edit DNS Hostnames dialog.
Complete the VPC wizard, and then click Create VPC.



Configuring your Security Group

Altus Director requires the following inbound ports to be open:


Ports


Type
Protocol
Port Range
Source




ALL Traffic
ALL
ALL
security_group_id


SSH (22)
TCP (6)
22
<your ip address>




Note: By default, Altus Director requires unrestricted outbound connectivity. You can configure Altus Director to use proxy servers or a local
mirror of all the relevant repositories if required.



Creating a New Security Group

The simplest way to set up the required network connectivity for Altus Director is to create a security group for your VPC and allow traffic between members of this security group as
described below. With this approach, you do not have to specify each part that is required by Cloudera Manager.

In the left pane, click Security Groups.
Click Create Security Group.
Enter a name and description. Make sure to select the VPC you created from the VPC list box.
Click Yes, Create.

Select the newly created security group and add inbound rules as detailed in the Ports
table.
The configured security group should look similar to the following, but with your own values in the Source column.




For more information about security groups in AWS, see Security
Groups for Your VPC. If your organization's network policies are more restrictive, and you need to specify each port required by Cloudera Manager, see Ports Used by Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Navigator in the Cloudera Manager documentation
for details.




Creating an SSH Key Pair

To interact with the cluster launcher and other instances, you must create an SSH key pair or use an existing EC2 key pair. For information on importing an existing key pair, see
Amazon EC2 Key Pairs in the AWS documentation. If you do not have a key pair, follow
these steps:

Select EC2 in Compute section of the AWS console.
In the Network & Security section of the left pane, click Key Pairs.
Click Create Key Pair. In the Create Key Pair dialog box, enter a name for the key pair and click Create.
Note the key pair name. Move the automatically downloaded private key file (with the .pem extension) to a secure location and note the location. For Mac
OS X, the key pair file is initially stored in the Downloads folder.

On Mac OS X, a secure location for storing the private key file is the hidden ~/.ssh folder.
Enter the following command in a terminal window to move the key pair file from the Downloads folder to the SSH folder:
$ mv name_of_key_pair.pem ~/.ssh



You are now ready to launch an EC2 instance.



Categories: AWS | Altus Director | Configuring | Environment | Network | Security | All Categories



Amazon Web Services (AWS)


Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus
Director


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












