



Upgrading Altus Director | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation













































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions














View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Upgrading Altus Director

By default, Altus Director 6.3 creates clusters with Cloudera Manager 6.3 and CDH 6.3. When you upgrade to Director 6.3, you can continue to manage existing clusters with Cloudera
Manager and CDH parcels 5.7 and higher.
You can upgrade to Altus Director 6.3 only from Altus Director 6.x versions. To upgrade from Altus Director 2.x, you must first upgrade to Altus Director 6.0 and then upgrade from Altus
Director 6.0 to Altus Director 6.3.
To upgrade to Altus Director 6.3, complete the following steps:

Review the upgrade requirements.
Altus Director 6.3 has different requirements than the previous version. Make sure that you understand the requirements before you start the upgrade process.

Perform the tasks required for the upgrade.
If your current Altus Director does not meet the Altus Director 6.3 requirements, the upgrade process will fail. For example, you cannot upgrade from an Altus Director version that is
earlier than version 6.0. You must upgrade to Altus Director 6.0 before you start the upgrade to Altus Director 6.3.

Upgrade to Altus Director 6.3.
Follow the instructions for upgrading the Altus Director server and client on your operating system.

Restore the settings to match the configuration of the previous version.
If you customized the configuration of the previous Altus Director 6.x instance, you can restore the configuration from your backup files and use the same configuration in Altus Director
6.3.
Complete this step before you start the Altus Director 6.3 server.

Restart the Altus Director 6.3 server.




Step 1: Review the Upgrade Requirements

Altus Director 6.3 has the following requirements:

You can upgrade to Altus Director 6.3 only from Altus Director 6.x versions.
You cannot upgrade to Altus Director 6.3 from any other Director version.
Altus Director 6.3 supports RHEL and CentOS versions 6.7, 6.8, 7.2, 7.4, 7.5, and 7.6 for
Cloudera Manager and clusters.

Altus Director 6.3 cannot create clusters on other versions of the operating systems. Likewise, Altus Director 6.3 does not work with existing Cloudera Manager and clusters that are
running on other versions of the operating systems.


For the complete list of requirements for Altus Director, see Requirements and Supported
Versions.



Step 2. Perform Tasks Required for the Upgrade

Complete all the necessary tasks to meet the upgrade requirements to ensure that you can successfully upgrade to Altus Director 6.3.
Before you upgrade to Altus Director 6.x, complete the following tasks:

Verify that you are upgrading from Altus Director 6.x.
Required.
You can upgrade to Altus Director 6.3 only from Altus Director 6.x. To upgrade from an Altus Director version that is earlier than version 6.0, you must first upgrade to
version 6.0 before you can upgrade to Altus Director 6.3.
The Altus Director 6.3 upgrade will not start if it detects that the Altus Director instance your are upgrading is not version 6.0 or later.
For more information about upgrading to Altus Director 6.0, see the Altus Director 6.0 upgrade documentation.

Verify that your Java version is version 8.
Required.
Altus Director 6.3 requires JDK version 8. It does not support other Java versions. You must upgrade to JDK version 8 before you can upgrade to Altus Director 6.3.
You can use Oracle JDK or OpenJDK with Altus Director 6.3.
For more information about Java installations, see the Oracle Java website.
For more information about OpenJDK, see the OpenJDK website.

Upgrade all Cloudera Manager instances that are older than version 5.7
Required.
Altus Director 6.3 supports Cloudera Manager version 5.7 or higher. Verify that all Director deployments are running Cloudera Manager version 5.7 or higher and upgrade any
Cloudera Manager version 5.6 or earlier.
Altus Director 6.3 will not start if it detects a deployment running Cloudera Manager 5.6 or earlier.

Back up the Altus Director 6.x properties file.
Recommended.
If you have modified the Director 6.x application.properties file, back up the file before you start the upgrade.
The application.properties is located in the following directory: /etc/cloudera-director-server/
After the upgrade, you can use the settings in the backup file to set the same configuration in Altus Director 6.3.

Back up the configuration files for the Altus Director 6.x plug-ins.
Recommended.
Altus Director includes configuration files that enable you to configure how the Altus Director plug-ins work. If you have modified the Altus Director 6.x plug-in
configuration files, back up the configuration files before you start the upgrade. After the upgrade, you can copy the plug-in configuration files from your backup and use the same configuration
files for the Altus Director 6.3 plug-ins.
The Altus Director plug-in files are in the following directory: /var/lib/cloudera-director-plugins/
The directory contains a separate versioned subdirectory for each plug-in. Back up the directory for the plug-in where you modified the configuration file. Or, if you modified the
configuration files for multiple plug-ins, back up the main /cloudera-director-plugins directory.

Back up the Altus Director 6.x database that stores state information.
Recommended.
The Altus Director 6.3 upgrade overwrites the state information in the Altus Director database. Back up the database before you start the upgrade process. If the upgrade fails
and you decide to revert back to the previous version, you can restore the data.
By default, Altus Director stores state information in the embedded H2 database named state.h2.db in the following directory: /var/lib/cloudera-director-server/. If you are using the default database, back up the state.h2.db file.
If you are using a MySQL database to store the Altus Director state, use MySQL backup procedures to back up the Altus Director database. The following example shows how to back up a
MySQL database using the mysqldump utility:
mysqldump --all-databases --single-transaction --user=root --password > backup.sql
For more information on using mysqldump, see the MySQL
documentation.





Step 3. Upgrade to Altus Director 6.3

The upgrade procedure differs based on the operating system where the current Altus Director is installed.
Note: Allow all running operations to complete before you start the upgrade.


RHEL and CentOS


Stop the Altus Director server service by running the following command:
sudo service cloudera-director-server stop
Before you proceed, verify that the Altus Director instance that you are upgrading meets all upgrade requirements. See Step 1: Review the Upgrade Requirements.

Download the Altus Director cloudera-director.repo file for Altus Director 6.3.
The cloudera-director.repo file is the YUM repository configuration file for Altus Director. The base URL in the latest cloudera-director.repo file points to the Altus Director 6.3 repository.
Run the following commands to download the latest Altus Director cloudera-director.repo file :
RHEL and CentOS 7.x:
cd /etc/yum.repos.d/
sudo wget "https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/director6/6.3.0/redhat7/cloudera-director.repo"
RHEL and CentOS 6.x:
cd /etc/yum.repos.d/
sudo wget "https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/director6/6.3.0/redhat6/cloudera-director.repo"

Run the following commands to upgrade the Altus Director server and client:
sudo yum clean all
sudo yum update cloudera-director-server cloudera-director-client

The Altus Director upgrade installs all required plug-in packages.
After the Altus Director server and client upgrade completes, rerun the service manager in the operating system.

Run the following command to re-execute the systemd manager:

sudo systemctl daemon-reexec


Note: Before you restart the server, restore the configuration from the previous version if you want to use the same configuration in Altus
Director 6.3. See Step 4. Restore the Configuration.



Ubuntu


Stop the Altus Director server service by running the following command:
sudo service cloudera-director-server stop
Before you proceed, verify that the Altus Director instance that you are upgrading meets all upgrade requirements. See Step 1: Review the Upgrade Requirements.

Download the Altus Director cloudera-director.list file for Altus Director 6.3.
The cloudera-director.list file is the repository configuration file for Altus Director. The base URL in the latest cloudera-director.list file points to the Altus Director 6.3 repository.
Run the following commands to download the latest Altus Director cloudera-director.list file :
Ubuntu 14.04
cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
sudo curl -L "http://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/director6/6.3/ubuntu1404/cloudera-director.list" -O
Ubuntu 16.04:
cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
sudo curl -L "http://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/director6/6.3/ubuntu1604/cloudera-director.list" -O
Ubuntu 18.04:
cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
sudo curl -L "http://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/director6/6.3/ubuntu1804/cloudera-director.list" -O

Run the following commands to upgrade the Altus Director server and client:
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade 
sudo apt-get install cloudera-director-server cloudera-director-client
The Altus Director upgrade installs all required plug-in packages.


Note: Before you restart the server, restore the configuration from the previous version if you want to use the same configuration in Altus
Director 6.3. See Step 4. Restore the Configuration.




Step 4. Restore the Configuration

If you want Altus Director 6.3 to have the same configuration as the previous version, restore the configuration settings from the backup files. Do not restart the Altus Director 6.3
server until you have updated the configuration files.
Complete the following tasks:

Restore the Altus Director configuration.
If you modified the application.properties file in the previous version, you can use the same configuration in Altus Director 6.3. Restore the
configuration from the backup file.
Restore the plug-in configuration files.
If you modified the configuration files for any of the Altus Director plug-ins in the previous version, restore the configuration files to the Altus Director 6.3 plug-in directory
before you restart the Altus Director 6.3 server.
The Altus Director plug-in files are in the following directory: /var/lib/cloudera-director-plugins/
The directory contains a separate versioned subdirectory for each plug-in. Although the version suffix in the subdirectory names changes for every version, the plug-in directory
structure and plug-in configuration file names in Altus Director 6.3 is the same as in previous versions.
You can copy the plug-in configuration files from your backup and overwrite the corresponding configuration files in the Altus Director 6.3 plug-in directory.






Step 5. Restart Director

To start Altus Director 6.3, run the following command:
sudo service cloudera-director-server start
The command to start Altus Director is the same in RHEL, CentOS, and Ubuntu.



Categories: Altus | Cloud | Director | Upgrading | All Categories



Running Altus Director Client


Troubleshooting


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












