



Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation









































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage

Altus Director works with Cloudera Manager and the cloud service provider to provide centralized and programmatic administration of clusters in the cloud, including deployment,
configuration, and maintenance of CDH clusters. With Altus Director, you can monitor and manage multiple Cloudera Manager and CDH deployments, across different cloud environments.
When you use Altus Director to deploy CDH, you can perform administrative tasks either in Altus Director or in Cloudera Manager. To avoid conflicts and inconsistencies, use the
management tool most appropriate for the task.

With Altus Director 2.4 and higher and Cloudera Manager and CDH 5.11 and higher, many changes made directly in Cloudera Manager are detected by Altus Director, which periodically
refreshes its state to reflect the state of the cluster in Cloudera Manager. Altus Director also refreshes its stored templates for the cluster so that your updated configuration is used if you
create more instances or clone the cluster.
Note: After making modifications in Cloudera Manager, wait at least five minutes for Altus Director to refresh before making any cluster
modifications in Altus Director-side cluster modifications, such as grow or shrink.

With Altus Director 2.3 and lower or Cloudera Manager and CDH 5.10 or lower, if you perform certain administrative tasks in Cloudera Manager, Altus Director and Cloudera Manager will
become out of sync. When Altus Director and Cloudera Manager are out of sync, Altus Director cannot grow or shrink the cluster or perform other updates to the cluster. You can use Altus Director 2.3
and lower to deploy new Cloudera Manager instances and clusters, but Cloudera Manager instances that are out of sync with Altus Director will function independently of Altus Director.




When to Use Altus Director

Use Altus Director when you want to perform the following types of tasks:

Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH clusters for prototyping.
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH clusters when you have finalized the topology and configuration.
Growing or shrinking a cluster. If you have made changes to the cluster using Cloudera Manager, update Altus Director with the changes and redeploy the cluster before you
grow or shrink the cluster.
Setting up clusters with Kerberos authentication or high availability.




When to Use Cloudera Manager

Use Cloudera Manager when you want to perform the following types of tasks:

Adding or removing a service in an existing cluster.
Changing role assignments for an existing virtual instance group, or migrate roles from one instance to another
Changing the configuration of a service or role
Testing and iterating on the topology and configuration of clusters.
Use Altus Director to create the cluster when you have finalized the topology and configuration.






CDH Cluster Management Tasks

When you deploy CDH and Cloudera Manager through Altus Director, you use Altus Director or Cloudera Manager to manage the clusters, depending on the task.
The following table lists cloud administrative tasks and the application where you must perform them to avoid inconsistencies in Altus Director and Cloudera Manager:




Task
Application
Notes




Cluster setup
Altus Director
Altus Director cannot manage clusters that are set up directly in Cloudera Manager.


Addition of host to a cluster or addition of cluster to Cloudera Manager
Altus Director
 


Host decommission
Altus Director
This is done by deleting the instance from the virtual instance group using Altus Director.


Adding a service
Cloudera Manager
If you add a service to a cluster in Cloudera Manager, Altus Director will detect the change and will update its cluster template to
match.


Removing a service
Cloudera Manager

If you remove a service from a cluster in Cloudera Manager, Altus Director will detect the change and will update its cluster template to match.
You can stop a service instead of removing it from a cluster. You can also use the grow and shrink feature of Altus Director to create hosts that do not have that service’s roles.



Initial role assignment
Altus Director
 


Add new virtual instance groups to a cluster
Altus Director
 


Change role assignments for an existing virtual instance group, or migrate roles from one instance to another
Cloudera Manager
Altus Director periodically refreshes its data on the state of cluster roles in existing virtual instance groups to include changes
made with Cloudera Manager. The changes must not result in inconsistency with respect to the roles included in different instances of the same virtual instance group. See Ensuring Consistency of Virtual Instance Groups below for more information.


Changes to the configuration of a service or role
Cloudera Manager
Altus Director will detect service and role configuration changes made in Cloudera Manager and will update the cluster template and
instance templates to match. The changes must not result in inconsistency with respect to the roles included in different instances of the same virtual instance group. See Ensuring Consistency of Virtual Instance Groups below for more information.


Cloud provider settings for instances, such as the machine image or instance type
Cloud provider management tool
Altus Director will detect configuration changes made in the cloud provider, including changes in the instance type and machine image,
and will update the cluster template and instance templates to match. The changes must not result in inconsistency with respect to the cloud provider configuration included in different instances of
the same virtual instance group. In AWS, for example, you can change the AMI or instance type directly in the AWS management console, but you must change all instances in the instance group to be
identical. See Ensuring Consistency of Virtual Instance Groups below for more information.


Adding, removing, and modifying parcels
Cloudera Manager
If you activate or deactivate parcels in Cloudera Manager, Altus Director will detect this change and update its cluster template to
match. Parcel version changes will also be detected. Note that when deactivating a parcel in Cloudera Manager, the associated services for that parcel should also be removed through Cloudera
Manager.


Cloudera Manager username and password change
Cloudera Manager and Altus Director
Change the username and password in Cloudera Manager. After you change the username and password in Cloudera Manager, you
must update the information in Altus Director. If you do not update the information in Altus Director, Altus Director will not be able to monitor or modify the cluster.


Upgrading a Cloudera Manager license
Cloudera Manager

Use Cloudera Manager to upgrade from Cloudera Express to Cloudera Enterprise.
Altus Director detects the change in license and displays the state of the updated license.



Minor version upgrade to Cloudera Manager or CDH
Cloudera Manager

You must upgrade Cloudera Manager manually and then use the upgraded Cloudera Manager to upgrade CDH.
Altus Director detects the version changes, and new clusters will use the upgraded versions.



Enabling high availability during cluster setup
Altus Director

High availability is supported in Altus Director version 2.0 or higher. Use the configuration file to enable high availability. Do not use the Altus Director web UI.



Enabling high availability in an existing cluster
Cloudera Manager
See High
Availability in the Cloudera Manager documentation for more information.
Note: When Altus Director 2.4 and higher refreshes a cluster to incorporate changes made in Cloudera Manager, it detects changes made at the role
group level, but it does not detect configuration changes made at the role instance level. In some cases with Cloudera Manager 5.11 and earlier, the Cloudera Manager high availability (HA) wizard
introduces role instance level configuration changes, and these must be moved manually to role group configurations in Cloudera Manager to keep Altus Director in sync. This is not an issue if you are
using Cloudera Manager 5.12 and higher.



Modifying a cluster in a highly available deployment
Altus Director

If you enable high availability in Cloudera Manager, you can run modify operations only on instance groups that do not contain highly available master roles.



Enabling Kerberos authentication during cluster setup
Altus Director

Kerberos setup is supported in Altus Director version 2.0 or higher. Use the configuration file to enable Kerberos during cluster setup. After the cluster is created, the
configuration file can no longer be used to enable Kerberos. Do not use the Altus Director web UI.
If you use Altus Director to deploy a cluster but use Cloudera Manager to enable Kerberos authentication, Altus Director and Cloudera Manager will become out of sync.








Ensuring Consistency of Virtual Instance Groups

All instances in a virtual instance group must have identical roles assigned to them, with identical role configurations, in order to enable cluster modifications in Altus Director. When
using Altus Director 2.4 and above with Cloudera Manager and CDH 5.11 and above, you can change role assignments, role configurations, and cloud provider settings in Cloudera Manager, but you must
ensure that all instances in a given virtual instance group are configured identically. Altus Director will then propagate any changes you make in Cloudera Manager back into the cluster's instance
templates.
If you make changes to an instance that create role assignments or configurations different from those of other instances in the virtual instance group, Altus Director will detect the
inconsistency and will flag the virtual instance group in the Altus Director UI, identifying which instance is inconsistent what the inconsistencies are. You will not be able to grow that instance
group until the inconsistency is fixed.
There are two ways to fix inconsistencies in a virtual instance group:

In Cloudera Manager, assign or remove roles in the instances that are flagged as inconsistent so that they are identical to the other instances in the virtual instance group
In Altus Director, shrink the virtual instance group to remove the instances that are flagged as inconsistent





CDH Cluster Management Guidelines for Altus Director

When you use Altus Director to deploy Cloudera Manager and CDH, the cluster information is saved in the Altus Director database. If you make changes to the cluster using the cloud
provider management console, the changes are detected by Altus Director. But terminating an instance using the cloud provider management console results in poor health of the hosts and services in
Altus Director. If the health of an instance turns bad or the instance fails, you can migrate to a new instance. Use the Altus Director web UI to shrink and grow the worker nodes and migrate the
master node to a new instance.
For information about growing or shrinking a cluster, see Modifying the Number of Instances in an Existing
Cluster.
For information about migrating HDFS master roles to a new instance, see Migrating HDFS Master Roles.



Categories: Altus Director | CDH | All Categories



Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances


Setting Cloudera Manager
Configurations


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












