



Using Spot Instances | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Using Spot Instances

To help you manage your cloud resource costs, Cloudera supports AWS Spot instances. Spot instances are Amazon EC2 instances that you can bid on. They run just like On-Demand instances,
except that they are not provisioned until the instance price falls below your bid price. Amazon will terminate the instances when the instance price exceeds your bid price. Spot instances allow you
to add capacity to your clusters at a low price.
Altus Director supports Spot instances for worker roles on the following services:

YARN
Hive on Spark
Hive on MapReduce
Spark

For all other components and for master roles, Cloudera recommends using on-demand instances.
Note: Amazon EC2 does not currently support Spot instances on Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL). Spot instances must be run on supported Centos
AMIs.

Although Spot instances are supported with Altus Director 2.0 and higher, Cloudera recommends using Altus Director 2.5 and higher together with Cloudera Manager and CDH 5.12 and higher
for Spot instances. Beginning with these versions, Cloudera has improved cluster resiliency to support Spot instances better. Now, if Amazon terminates a Spot instance during a bootstrap or update
operation, Altus Director will shrink the terminated instance out of the cluster, as long as the affected instance group still meets the minimum count requirement. For this reason, Cloudera
recommends specifying a minimum count of zero for instance groups that use Spot instances. (See Best
Practices for Using Spot Instances below.)
Note: With versions of Altus Director lower than 2.5 and versions of Cloudera Manager and CDH lower than 5.12, a cluster will fail if Amazon
terminates a Spot instance during a bootstrap or update operation. If a bootstrap operation fails, it cannot be recovered, and a new cluster must be launched in its place. If an
update operation fails, it might be possible to recover cluster functionality, but only with the assistance of Cloudera Support.


Note: Because Spot instances are terminated by AWS if the Spot price you bid becomes lower than the current Spot price, you should not use Spot
instances for master nodes or for data storage. Use Spot instances only for instances where the loss of the instance can be tolerated, such as compute nodes or other worker nodes.

For more information about using Spot instances, see the Amazon EC2
documentation. For help with bidding on Spot instances, see the Spot Bid Advisor.


Planning for Spot Instances

It is normal for Spot instances on a cluster to disappear over time. However, Cloudera Manager does not see that these instances are terminated. If you use Cloudera Manager to restart a
cluster that contains a Spot instance group, and the Spot instances have terminated, the restart fails. If you are modifying any group in the cluster that has lost Spot instances, do not select the
Restart checkbox.
If your bid price is so low that you do not obtain an instance when the group is created, you will have 0 instances in your group. If this happens, you can:

Delete the entire group.
Add more instances to the group.
Delete unprovisioned instances from the group (only as part of adding more instances to the group).
Retry (repair) existing instances.

You cannot do the following:

Change the bid price for spot instances.
Note: Although you cannot change the bid price for a spot instance, you can work around this restriction by adding a new, identical virtual
instance group with the desired bid price.

Delete all instances without adding more, due to the minimum instance count requirement.


The bid price for Spot instances is set in an instance template. This template is associated with a group. Although you can modify the group, you cannot change the bid price. Therefore,
if you set the bid price too low for successful provisioning, you must delete the group where that price is set and create a new group with the higher bid price. You must also delete the current
group and create a new one if you want to drop the bid price.



Specifying Spot Instances

To specify Spot instances, create a new instance template and use this template for your instance group. In the Advanced Options section of the
Create New Instance Template wizard, check the Use Spot Instances checkbox and enter a value in the Spot
bid field.





Spot Blocks: Specifying a Duration for Spot Instances

The AWS Spot block feature enables you to specify a fixed duration ranging from one to six hours for Spot instances. Spot instances with a predefined duration use a fixed hourly price
that remains in effect for the Spot instance while it runs. The price for instances with a Spot block will not be as low as that for ordinary Spot instances, but will be lower than that of on-demand
instances, and Spot block instances are guaranteed to run for the specified duration, after which they are terminated.
To configure an instance template for Spot block instances, check the Use Spot Instances checkbox, enter a value in the Spot
bid field, and choose a value from one to six hours (in intervals of 60 minutes) in the Spot Block Duration dropdown.



See Specifying a Duration for Your Spot
Instances in the AWS documentation for more information about Spot blocks.



Best Practices for Using Spot Instances


Use a Spot instance worker group in conjunction with an On-Demand worker group. This ensures that the cluster can redo computational tasks run on Spot instances that could be
terminated before the tasks are finished.
Use Spot instances only in contexts where the loss of the instance can be tolerated, as in a worker group. Do not use Spot instances for master nodes or for data storage.
Use a minimum count of 0 for Spot instance groups. If you use a number above 0, the cluster will likely enter a failed
state.

Additional best practices for using spot instances can be found in Spot
Instance Interruptions in the AWS documentation.



Categories: AWS | Altus Director | Best Practices | Spot Instances | Using | All Categories



Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment


Using Automatic Instance Groups


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












