



Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation









































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Security, Encryption, and High Availability








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director

Using Altus Director 2.0 or higher and Cloudera Manager 5.5 or higher, you can launch highly available clusters for HDFS, YARN, ZooKeeper, HBase, Hive, Hue, and Oozie. The services are
highly available on cluster launch with no additional setup. To enable high availability, edit the Altus Director configuration file as described in this topic and launch the cluster with the Altus
Director client and the bootstrap-remote command, which sends the configuration file to a running Altus Director server.
Note: With Altus Director 1.5 and Cloudera Manager 5.4, you can set up a highly available cluster by running a script after the cluster is
launched. For more information, see the high-availability scripts and the
README file on the Altus Director GitHub site.


Continue reading:

Limitations and Restrictions
Editing the Configuration File to Launch a Highly Available Cluster
Migrating HDFS Master Roles




Limitations and Restrictions

The following limitations and restrictions apply to creating highly available clusters with Altus Director:

The procedure described in this section works with Altus Director 2.0 or higher and Cloudera Manager 5.5 or higher.
Altus Director does not support migrating a cluster from a non-high availability setup to a high availability setup.
Cloudera recommends sizing the master nodes large enough to support the desired final cluster size.
Settings must comply with the configuration requirements described below and in the aws.ha.reference.conf file. Incorrect configurations can result in
failures during initial bootstrap.





Editing the Configuration File to Launch a Highly Available Cluster

Follow these steps to create a configuration file for launching a highly available cluster.

Download the sample configuration file aws.ha.reference.conf from the Cloudera GitHub site. The cluster section of the file shows the role assignments and required configurations for the services where high
availability is supported. The file includes comments that explain the configurations and requirements.
Copy the sample file to your home directory before editing it. Rename the aws.ha.reference.conf file, for example, to ha.cluster.conf. The configuration file must use the .conf file extension. Open the configuration file with a text editor.
Note: The sample configuration file includes configuration specific to Amazon Web Services, such as the section for cloud provider credentials. The
file can be modified for other cloud providers by copying sections from the other cloud provider-specific sample files, for example, gcp.simple.conf.

Edit the file to supply your cloud provider credentials and other details about the cluster. A highly available cluster has additional requirements, as seen in the sample aws.ha.reference.conf file. These requirements include duplicating the master roles for highly available services.


The sample configuration file includes a set of instance groups for the services where high availability is supported. An instance group specifies the set of roles that are installed
together on an instance in the cluster. The master roles in the sample aws.ha.reference.conf file are included in four instance groups, each containing particular
roles. The names of the instance groups are arbitrary, but the names used in the sample file are hdfsmasters-1, hdfsmasters-2, masters-1, and masters-2. You can create multiple instances in the
cluster by setting the value of the count field for the instance group. The sample file is configured for two hdfsmasters-1 instances, one hdfsmasters-2 instance, two
masters-1 instances, and one masters-2 instance.
The cluster services for which high availability is supported are listed below, with the minimum number of roles required and other requirements.

HDFS

Two NAMENODE roles.
Three JOURNALNODE roles.
Two FAILOVERCONTROLLER roles, each colocated to run on the same host as one of the NAMENODE roles (that is, included in the same instance group).
One HTTPFS role if the cluster contains a Hue service.
The NAMENODE nameservice, autofailover, and quorum journal name must be configured for high availability exactly as shown in the sample aws.ha.reference.conf file.
Set the HDFS service-level configuration for fencing as shown in the sample aws.ha.reference.conf file:
configs {
                # HDFS fencing should be set to true for HA configurations
                HDFS {
                dfs_ha_fencing_methods: "shell(true)"
                }
Three role instances are required for the HDFS JOURNALNODE role. This ensures a quorum for determining which is the active node and which are standbys.

For more information, see HDFS High
Availability in the Cloudera Administration documentation.

YARN

Two RESOURCEMANAGER roles.
One JOBHISTORY role.

For more information, see YARN (MRv2)
ResourceManager High Availability in the Cloudera Administration documentation.

ZooKeeper

Three SERVER roles (recommended). There must be an odd number, but one will not provide high availability
Three role instances are required for the ZooKeeper SERVER role. This ensures a quorum for determining which is the active node and which are standbys.


HBase

Two MASTER roles.

For more information, see HBase High
Availability in the Cloudera Administration documentation.

Hive

Two HIVESERVER2 roles.
Two HIVEMETASTORE roles.

For more information, see Hive
Metastore High Availability in the Cloudera Administration documentation.

Hue

Two HUESERVER roles.
One HTTPFS role for the HDFS service.
One HUE_LOAD_BALANCER role

For more information, see Hue High
Availability in the Cloudera Administration documentation.

Oozie

Two SERVER roles.
Oozie plug-ins must be configured for high availability exactly as shown in the sample aws.ha.reference.conf file. In addition to the required Oozie
plug-ins, other Oozie plug-ins can be enabled. All Oozie plug-ins must be configured for high availability.
Oozie requires a load balancer for high availability. Altus Director does not create or manage the load balancer. The load balancer must be configured with the IP addresses of the
Oozie servers after the cluster completes bootstrapping.

For more information, see Oozie High
Availability in the Cloudera Administration documentation.

The following requirements apply to databases for your cluster:

You can configure external databases for use by the services in your cluster and for Altus Director. If no databases are specified in the configuration file, an embedded PostgreSQL
database is used.
External databases can be set up by Altus Director, or you can configure preexisting external databases to be used. Databases set up by Altus Director are specified in the databaseTemplates block of the configuration file. Preexisting databases are specified in the databases block of the configuration file. External
databases for the cluster must be either all preexisting databases or all databases set up by Altus Director; a combination of these is not supported.
Hue, Oozie, and the Hive metastore each require a database.
Databases for highly available Hue, Oozie, and Hive services must themselves be highly available. An Amazon RDS MySQL Multi-AZ deployment, whether preexisting or configured to be
created by Altus Director, satisfies this requirement.







Migrating HDFS Master Roles

Situations can arise in a cluster where you need to migrate HDFS master roles, perhaps as a result of hardware failure or because of a need to rebalance cluster resources. This section
describes two methods of migrating HDFS master roles (NameNode, Failover Controller, and JournalNode) in a highly available cluster:

Migrating roles to a different instance: Cloudera recommends using this method because it gives you the most options:

It allows you to move the master roles from one instance to another without necessarily removing the instance that you are migrating from.
It allows you to make changes to the instance configuration, such as the AMI, security group, or instance type, rather than requiring you to move the master roles to an instance with a
configuration identical to the one being replaced.


Replacing a HDFS master instance with an identical copy: With this method, you replace the original instance with the new instance, creating an identical
copy without changes to the instance configuration. At the end of the procedure, the original instance is deleted.


With either method, you will perform a process that is partly manual, and requires migration of the roles in Cloudera Manager. If a host running HDFS master roles fails in a highly
available cluster, you can use Altus Director and the Cloudera Manager Role Migration wizard to move the roles to another host without losing the role states. What was previously the standby instance
of each migrated role runs as the active instance. When the migration is completed, the role that runs on the new host becomes the standby instance.
The procedure for each method is described in the following sections.

Continue reading:

Migrating Roles to a Different Instance
Replacing a HDFS Master Instance with an Identical Copy




Migrating Roles to a Different Instance

To migrate master roles from one instance to another, follow the steps below:


Step 1: Preparation



Back up the Altus Director database.
Check the logs to ensure that the cluster refresh is working properly, since cluster refresh is required for this procedure. The cluster refresh process needs access to both Cloudera
Manager and the cloud provider. Misconfiguration that prevents this access might appear in the log file. Look for log messages that contain ClusterRefresher and
RefreshClusters to ensure that no warnings or errors appear. Altus Director server logs are located at /var/log/cloudera-director-server/application.log on the Altus Director instance.





Step 2: Add instances (without roles) to the cluster in Altus Director



Create a new instance group for each set of roles you will place on new instances in Step 3: Migrate roles
to the new instances in Cloudera Manager. Typically, for HDFS master roles you will create three instances for the HDFS master roles, in two instance groups:

Two of the instances will include all three HDFS master roles (NameNode role, Failover Controller role, and JournalNode role). Create one instance group for these three roles.
The third instance will include the required third copy of the JournalNode role. Create a second instance group for this JournalNode role.

For information about configuring instance groups in Altus Director, see Configuring Instance Groups During Cluster
Creation.
In Altus Director, add the required number of new instances (the number of instances you are replacing), but do not assign roles to them. Altus Director installs the Cloudera Manager
agent on these instances, but no roles, so that they are available as hosts for Cloudera Manager to use in the next step, Step 3: Migrate roles to the new instances in Cloudera Manager. For information about how to add instances in Altus Director, see Modifying the Number of Instances in an Existing Cluster.
If you want to change the configuration of the new master instances, create new instance templates in the environment that includes your cluster. Configure these instance templates
with the desired configurations for the instances you are replacing. If you want the new instances to be identical to the ones you are replacing, you can use the instance templates that were used to
create the original instances.





Step 3: Migrate roles to the new instances in Cloudera Manager

In Cloudera Manager, migrate roles to the new instances. Refer to the Cloudera Manager and CDH documentation for instructions on migrating high availability master role instances.



Step 4: Wait for the Altus Director refresh to pick up the new role assignments

The Altus Director refresh runs approximately every five minutes. You can monitor the log file for the log messages for ClusterRefresher and RefreshClusters to see when this occurs.
Verify that the high availability master roles are as expected in the Altus Director UI. The old instances should contain no roles.



Step 5: Terminate old instances in Altus Director

In Altus Director, terminate the old instances. For information on terminating instances in Altus Director, see Modifying the Number of Instances in an Existing Cluster.




Replacing a HDFS Master Instance with an Identical Copy

Use this method to replace instances with an exact copy on the new instance. If you want to make changes in the instance or its configuration, for example, to use a different instance
type or an instance with more memory, use the workflow described above, Migrating Roles to a Different Instance.
The following limitations apply when performing HDFS role migration with this method.

You cannot modify any instance groups on the cluster during the repair and role migration process.
You cannot clone the cluster during the repair and role migration process.
During role migration with this method, you cannot perform Altus Director operations on the cluster, such as growing or shrinking it.
Instance-level post-creation scripts will not be run on any instances that are part of a
manual migration. If you have instance-level post-creation scripts and want them to run during manual migration, run the scripts manually.



Important: To complete the migration (Step 3 below), click a checkbox to indicate that the migration is done, after which the old instance is
terminated. Check Cloudera Manager to ensure that the old host has no roles or data on it before performing this step in Altus Director. Once the old instance is terminated, any information or state
it contained is lost.

If you have completed Step 1 (on Altus Director) and intend to complete Step 2 (on Cloudera Manager) at a later time, you can confirm which IP address to migrate from or to by going to
the cluster status page in Altus Director and clicking either the link for migration in the upper left, or the Modify Cluster button on the right. A pop-up displays
the hosts to migrate from and to:



You do not need to check the boxes to restart and deploy client configuration at the start of the repair process. You restart and deploy the client configuration manually after role
migration is complete.
Do not attempt repair for non-highly available master roles. The Cloudera Manager Role Migration wizard only works for high availability HDFS roles.


Step 1: Create a new instance in Altus Director


In Altus Director, click the cluster name and click Modify Cluster.
Click the checkbox next to the IP address of the failed instance (containing the HDFS NameNode and collocated Failover Controller, and possibly a JournalNode). Click Repair.
Click OK. You do not need to select Restart Cluster at this time, because you will restart the cluster after
migrating the HDFS master roles.

Altus Director creates a new instance on a new host, installs the Cloudera Manager agent on the instance, and copies the Cloudera Manager parcels to it.



Step 2: Migrate roles and data in Cloudera Manager

In Cloudera Manager, open the cluster. On the Hosts tab, you see a new instance with no roles. The cluster is in an intermediate state, containing the
new host to which the roles will be migrated and the old host from which the roles will be migrated.
Use the Cloudera Manager Migrate Roles wizard to move the roles.
See Moving Highly Available NameNode,
Failover Controller, and JournalNode Roles Using the Migrate Roles Wizard in the Cloudera Administration guide.




Step 3: Delete the old instance in Altus Director



In Altus Director, return to the cluster.
Click Details. The message "Attention: Cluster requires manual role migration" is displayed. Click More Details.
Check the box labeled, "I have manually migrated these roles."
Click OK.


The failed instance is deleted from the cluster.





Categories: Altus Director | Configuring | High Availability | All Categories



Enabling Sentry Service Authorization


Encrypted Configuration Properties


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












