



New Features and Changes in Cloudera Altus Director | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Release
Notes








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




New Features and Changes in Cloudera Altus Director

The following sections describe the new features and changes introduced in this release of Altus Director.


What's New in Altus Director 6.3

Altus Director 6.3.0 provides new features and supports new versions of CDH and Cloudera Manager.


Support for Cloudera Manager 6.3 and CDH 6.3

By default, Altus Director 6.3 installs Cloudera Manager 6.3 and CDH 6.3.



Java 11 Support

Altus Director 6.3 may be run either on OpenJDK 11 or Java 8.
By default, Altus Director 6.3 installs Java 8 for use by Cloudera Manager 6.3 and CDH 6.3. However, these new releases of Cloudera Manager and CDH also run under OpenJDK 11, and so
Altus Director may be configured to instead install OpenJDK 11 for them from the package of your choice.



New AWS Regions

Definitions for the eu-north-1 (Stockholm) and ap-east-1 (Hong Kong) regions have been added to the AWS plugin that ships with Altus Director 6.3.0.



New Azure VM Types

Definitions for the STANDARD_D2S_V3 and STANDARD_D4S_V3 VM types have been added to the Azure plugin that ships with Altus Director 6.3.0.



Google Cloud Platform Plugin Enhancements

The Google Cloud Platform plugin that ships with Altus Director 6.3.0 contains several new features and improvements.

Shared VPCs are now supported, meaning that Altus Director can work with networks that are shared from another project.
External IP addresses for instances are now optional.
Up to eight local SSDs can now be associated with an instance.
Automatically generated instance names are now shorter, to help to avoid problems with setting up server TLS certificates.





What's New in Altus Director 6.2.1

Altus Director 6.2.1 provides new features and supports new versions of CDH and Cloudera Manager.


Improved support for Cloudera repository mirrors

Altus Director supports the use of local mirrors for the repositories that host installation packages for Cloudera Manager and parcels for CDH.
Starting in Altus Director 6.2.1, Altus Director can be configured for alternative layouts with the following configuration properties:

lp.bootstrap.cmrepo.serverPackageUrlPattern. Pattern to match for the URL of a Cloudera Manager server package. Default:
(.*)/RPMS/x86_64/cloudera-manager-server.*\\.rpm
lp.bootstrap.cmrepo.repoFilePath. Path to the yum repository definition for Cloudera Manager on the Cloudera Manager instance. Default:
/etc/yum.repos.d/cloudera-manager.repo


Previously, Altus Director only supported only the expected layout for Cloudera Manager mirror repositories.




What's New in Altus Director 6.2

Altus Director 6.2 provides new features and supports new versions of CDH and Cloudera Manager.


Support for Cloudera Manager 6.2 and CDH 6.2

By default, Altus Director 6.2 installs Cloudera Manager 6.2 and CDH 6.2.
Altus Director 6.2 installs Java 8 with Cloudera Manager 6.2 and the CDH 6.2 instances.
You can use Altus Director 6.2 to install Cloudera Manager and CDH 5.7.x or later 5.x versions if you specify the product version and parcel repositories in the Altus Director
configuration file.
When Altus Director 6.2 installs Cloudera Manager 5.7.x or a later 5.x version, Altus Director 6.2 installs Java 7 with Cloudera Manager and the CDH instances by default. You can
configure the Java version that Altus Director 6.2 installs with Cloudera Manager 5.7.x or a later 5.x version. For more information about configuring the Java version for Cloudera Manager and CDH
clusters, see Deploying Java on Cluster Instances.



Automatic Instance Groups

Director supports automatic instance groups that use instances in an EC2 Auto Scaling Group (ASG) or Azure
Virtual Machine Scale Set (VMSS). Automatic instance groups typically launch faster and more reliably, and in some cases support new features not available in regular instances.
Director does not yet support changing the size of an ASG or VMSS in the cloud provider. You must continue to use Director's grow/shrink cluster updates if you need to change the size of
an automatic instance group.
For more information about automatic instance groups, see Using Automatic Instance
Groups.



Support for Azure Database for MySQL

You can use an Azure Database for MySQL instance for the Altus Director database and for the Cloudera Manager database and CDH component databases.
For more information about using Azure Database for MySQL, see Setting up Azure Database
for MySQL.



Support for Additional Azure Instance Types

Azure’s Fsv2-series,
Dsv3-series and Esv3-series VM sizes are now supported.



Proxy Support for Azure Instances

Cloudera Director can now provision Azure instances behind an HTTP proxy server.



Cloudera Manager Configuration Sync

Cloudera Altus Director has expanded how it monitors Cloudera Manager configurations and synchronizes them with Altus Director’s internal state. When Altus Director synchronizes with
Cloudera Manager, the configuration values for Cloudera Manager, management services, and roles are copied back into the deployment template. The refreshed values are included in any subsequent
export of the deployment. Sensitive values are stored as “REDACTED” so they are not exposed via the UI or in the exported configuration.



Cloudera Manager License Update

In addition to monitoring Cloudera Manager configurations, Altus Director monitors Cloudera Manager for license changes and reflects those as well. Users who need to update their
existing Cloudera Manager license can do so without interruption, and users can now add usage-based billing on clusters that were initially set up with a trial license and later migrated to a full
license.




Categories: Altus Director | New Features | Release Notes | All Categories



Release Notes


Known Issues


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












