



The Altus Director Configuration File | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation








































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




The Altus Director Configuration File

The Altus Director configuration file is used to launch a cluster through the Altus Director server with the bootstrap-remote command.
For information on the bootstrap-remote commands, see Commands. The configuration file follows the HOCON format.
For information on HOCON, see the documentation on GitHub at HOCON (Human-Optimized Config Object
Notation).


Location of Sample Configuration Files

Sample configuration files are found either in /usr/lib64/cloudera-director/client or /usr/lib/cloudera-director/client,
depending on the operating system you are using. Copy the sample files to your home directory before editing them.



Customizing the Configuration File

Copy the sample files to your home directory before editing them. Rename the cloud_provider.simple.conf or cloud_provider.reference.conf file to your_filename.conf.

For simple cluster configuration, use cloud-provider.simple.conf.
For advanced cluster configuration, use cloud_provider.reference.conf.

Important: The configuration file must use the .conf file extension.
Open your copy of the configuration with a text editor to customize the configuration settings.
The cloud_provider.reference.conf version of the configuration file includes advanced settings that are documented in
comments within the file itself. Details on the specific settings in the file are not duplicated in this document.



Valid Role Types for Use in Configuration Files

For a list of valid roles for Cloudera Manager and CDH services that you can use in a Altus Director configuration file, see the Cloudera Manager API page on Available Role Types.



Using the API to Import a Configuration File

Beginning with release 2.0 of Altus Director, you can import the contents of a configuration file into Altus Director with the API using the /api/<api_version>/import endpoint. For example:
 /api/v10/import?clusterName=someClusterName&deploymentName=someDeploymentName&environmentName=someEnvironmentName
In this way, you can POST the contents of a configuration file to Altus Director without using the Altus Director CLI. The values clusterName, deploymentName, and environmentName are all
optional. If they are present, they override the values in the configuration file.



Default Values for Configuration Files

In Altus Director 2.7 and lower, Altus Director provides default values for several common configuration file properties when no values have been specified in a user's configuration
file.
In 2.8 and higher, Altus Director no longer provides the default values. You must include these values in any new configuration files you create for 2.8 and higher, and add them to older
configuration files if you want to reuse them. Specifically, the following configuration file properties must now be included in your configuration file:


CDH version: In Altus Director 2.8 and higher, the products section in the cluster description section of the configuration
file must specify the CDH version, for example, CDH: 5, as shown below.
products {
      CDH: 5
      KAFKA: 3
      ACCUMULO: 1.6
    # SPARK2: 2
    }
Instance name prefix: In the absence of a user-provided instance name prefix, the default instance name prefix for AWS EC2 instances in Altus Director 2.7
and lower is launchpad, and for Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform instances it is director. In 2.8 and higher, the default
instance name prefix is director on all three supported cloud platforms. If you require the prefix launchpad for EC2 instances, you must
specify it in your configuration file.
Instance template names based on EC2 instance types: The instance template names m1x, cc28,
and hs18 can be specified in Altus Director 2.7 and lower to launch a particular EC2 instance type. If you want to use these as instance names in 2.8 and higher, you
can specify them as names in your configuration file, but they won't automatically correspond to an instance type. You must configure the instance type yourself.
Predefined lists of master and worker roles for each cluster service: No default master and worker role lists for CDH services are provided in Altus
Director 2.8 and higher, and they must be specified in the configuration file. Existing configuration files that rely on the predefined lists of roles must be updated with master and worker roles if
you want to use them with Altus Director 2.8 and higher.





Categories: Altus Director | Configuring | All Categories



Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances


Submitting a Cluster Configuration File


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












