



Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedMicrosoft Azure








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings

Simple setup clusters provide the simplest and most reliable way to get a Cloudera Manager deployment and CDH cluster up and running quickly when you do not require custom configurations
or advanced features, like Kerberos, TLS, or external databases. To bootstrap a new cluster, you need only provide some information about your cloud provider of choice, and about the type of cluster
you want to create. All of the other details about how your cluster is configured, like its topology and versions of Cloudera Manager and CDH, are determined for you by Altus Director.
Simple setup clusters are not recommended as production clusters. But a good strategy for creating a production cluster is to export a client configuration file for a simple setup
cluster, and then edit that configuration file to add more advanced features. In this way, you simplify the task of creating a custom cluster, beginning from a known working configuration, rather
than starting from the more complete, but more complex azure.reference.conf file. You can export a client configuration file through the web UI or through the server API. For more information, see Exporting a Configuration File


Type of Simple Setup Clusters

You can choose from five different types of cluster with the simple setup procedure, based on the workloads you will run in the cluster. The workload type you choose determines the
services in the cluster.

Basic: Provides a simple Hadoop environment. Includes Hive and MapReduce.
Data Engineering: For Spark workloads and ETL jobs. Includes Hive and Spark.
Analytic Database: For business intelligence and SQL analytics. Includes Impala and Hive.
Operational Database: For NoSQL real-time application serving. Includes HBase.
Enterprise Data Hub: Provides a comprehensive range of services for the Cloudera platform.





Ways to Create a Simple Setup Cluster

There are several ways to create a simple setup cluster:

Use the Altus Director UI, and clicking the tile Simple Setup at the conclusion of the Add Environment procedure, or by
navigating to an existing environment and clicking the Add Cluster button.
Use the Altus Director CLI and the bootstrap-remote command with a configuration file. You can define a simple client configuration file with the same
environment and cluster information that you would supply through the web user interface. For a sample configuration file, including instructions for creating a cluster, see azure.simple_setup.conf on the Cloudera GitHub site.
Submit JSON or HOCON input to the Altus Director API import endpoint. For details, see importClientConfig in the Altus Director API console at
director_ip_address:port/api-console/index.html.





Launching a Simple Setup Cluster with the Altus Director UI

To use simple setup to launch a cluster with the Altus Director UI, perform the following steps:

Add an Altus Director environment, as described in Adding an Altus Director Environment on
Azure.
Begin the simple setup installation procedure in one of the following ways:

Click the Simple Setup tile at the conclusion of the Add Environment procedure.
Navigate to an existing environment and click the Add Cluster button.


Provide values for the fields on the Add Cluster screen:

Environment name: The name of the Environment that includes this cluster. More information.
Cluster name: Between 2 and 40 alphanumeric characters. Space, underscore, and hyphen are allowed except at the beginning or end of the name. Azure
instance names for the cluster nodes will be prefixed with the cluster name.
Workload Type: Select the typical workload that this cluster will run on from the dropdown list. The workload type will be used to determine the services
that will run inside the cluster.
Worker Node Instance Type: The machine type. More information.
Worker Node Count: Number of cluster nodes for worker roles.
Virtual Network: The Virtual Network for the deployment. This must exist in the Virtual Network Resource Group you selected. More information.
Virtual Network Resource Group: The Resource Group where the Virtual Network is located.
Network Security Group: The Network Security Group for the deployment. This must exist in the Network Security Group Resource Group you selected.
More information.
Network Security Group Resource Group: The Resource Group where the Network Security Group is located.
Compute Resource Group: The Resource Group where the compute resources such as VM instances and availability sets will be created. More information.
Host FQDN suffix: The private domain name used to create a FQDN for each host. Note: Azure provided DNS service does not support reverse DNS lookup for
private IP addresses. You must setup a dedicated DNS service with reverse lookup support and use this FQDN Suffix.


Click Continue to launch the cluster.


If you launch additional simple setup clusters using the same Altus Director environment, many of the fields on the Add Cluster screen will be pre-populated
with the values you used for your previous simple setup cluster.



Categories: Altus Director | Azure | Configuring | Getting Started | All Categories



Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure


Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera
Manager and CDH on Azure


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












