



User Management | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




User Management

User roles control the actions a user can perform. There are currently two user roles:

Admin - For administrative access. Has full access to Altus Director functionality, and can perform the following actions:

Add environments, Cloudera Manager instances, and clusters
Delete environments
Terminate Cloudera Manager and cluster instances
Review environments, Cloudera Manager instances, and clusters
Grow and shrink clusters
Add and delete users
Change user roles
Change passwords, including own password


Guest - For read-only access.


On installation, the Altus Director server component includes one of each of the two kinds of user accounts:

admin - Default password: admin
guest - Default password: guest


Cloudera recommends that you change the passwords for these accounts after installing the server. User accounts can be created, deleted, enabled, or disabled. A disabled user account
cannot log in or perform any Altus Director actions.
User account data is kept in the Altus Director database. You can define new user accounts for Altus Director with either the server web UI or the API.

Note: Cloudera Manager has many more user roles that control access to Cloudera Manager features. For more information see Cloudera Manager User Roles in the Enterprise documentation.



Managing Users with the Altus Director Web web UI

You can perform the following user management operations through the Altus Director Web web UI:
Create a User Account
To create a new user account, perform the following steps:

On the Altus Director home screen, click the dropdown menu in the upper right and click Manage Users.
Click the Add User button.
Enter a username and password for the new user, and select a role (Admin or Guest).
Click Add User.


Disable a User Account
To disable an existing user account, perform the following steps:

On the Altus Director home screen, click the dropdown menu in the upper right and click Manage Users.
Click the checkbox next to the user account you want to disable.
Click the dropdown menu for the user account in the Actions column and click Disable User.
Confirm that user you have disabled now appears as unavailable on the Manage Users screen.

You can use the same procedure to enable a user account that is currently disabled. The Actions dropdown list displays the item Enable User for a user account that is
currently disabled.
Change User Account Passwords
Users with the admin role can change any user's password. Guest users can change only their own password.
To change your own password, perform the following steps:

On the Altus Director home screen, click the dropdown menu in the upper right and click Change password.
Enter your current password, a new password, and the new password again to confirm.
Click Save changes.

To change another user's password, perform the following steps (using the required Admin role):

On the Altus Director home screen, click the dropdown menu in the upper right and click Manage Users.
Click the checkbox next to the user whose password you want to change.
Click the dropdown menu for the user account in the Actions column and click Change password.
Enter a new password and enter the password again to confirm.
Click Save changes.


Change a User's Role
An Admin user can change another user's role by performing the following steps:

On the Altus Director home screen, click the dropdown menu in the upper right and click Manage Users.
Click the checkbox next to the user whose role you want to change.
Click the dropdown menu for the user in the Actions column and click Change role.
Select the new role in the Role dropdown menu.
Click Save changes.


Delete a User Account
An Admin user can delete a user account by performing the following steps:

On the Altus Director home screen, click the dropdown menu in the upper right and click Manage Users.
Click the checkbox next to the user account you want to delete.
Click the dropdown menu for the user account in the Actions column and click Delete.
Click Delete to confirm.





Managing Users with the Altus Director API

Altus Director server has a REST service endpoint for user management, at director-server-hostname:7189/api/v9/users. You can perform the following
user-management operations with the Altus Director API. They all use JSON for input data and response data.




REST method
Description




GET /api/v9/users
Lists all usernames.


POST /api/v9/users
Creates a new user account (Admin role required).


GET /api/v9/users/current
Gets account information on the currently logged-in user.


GET /api/v9/users/{username}
Gets account information on a user.


PUT /api/v9/users/{username}
Changes account information on a user.


DELETE /api/v9/users/{username}
Deletes an account (Admin role required)


PUT /api/v9/users/{username}/password
Changes an account password for Guests; old password required, and Guests can only change their own account.





For information on managing users with the Altus Director API, see the server API documentation at director-server-hostname:7189/api-console. Expand
the section labeled users.



Categories: Altus Director | Configuring | Users | All Categories



Diagnostic Data Collection


Using Altus Director Server to
Manage Cluster Instances


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












