



Issues Fixed in Altus Director | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation














































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Release
Notes








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Issues Fixed in Altus Director


The following sections describe fixed issues in each Altus Director release.

Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.3.0
Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.2.1
Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.2
Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.1
Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.0.1
Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.0.0




Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.3.0

Ephemeral drives not mounted with nofail option

The mounting of ephemeral or local drives for AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform instances is performed without including the "nofail" option. Without this option, when an
ephemeral drive fails, the associated instance can not restart successfully.
In the open source plugin for the relevant cloud provider, edit the prepare_unmounted_volumes script to add the "nofail" option to the entry added to
/etc/fstab for each ephemeral drive. Then, rebuild and update the installation of the plugin.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8579



RefreshMetadata fails to find instances during allocation.

In rare occasions, Director can fail to properly refresh instance metadata during instance allocation due to eventual consistency problems.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9076



Changing of Cloudera Manager credentials fails when only changing the password.

When changing the Cloudera Manager credentials, if only the password is changed, the changed password will fail to propagate to the deployment template. This can cause certain operations
within Director to fail, including the update of the billing ID.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9107



Database connection pool cannot be configured

Altus Director uses the HikariCP database connection pool library. Due to how Altus Director arranges its configuration properties, it is not possible to configure the connection pool,
for example, to increase its maximum size. Under certain load conditions, the pool can therefore have problems such as running out of connections.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9116




Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.2.1

Deployments and clusters that use existing Postgres or Azure for MySQL databases hosted in Azure fail to bootstrap

Altus Director Azure deployments fail to connect to the external database using either Postgres or Azure for MySQL during bootstrap. Altus Director appends multiple instances of the
database hostname to the database usernames defined in the cluster bootstrap file resulting in a database connection error.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9097



Altus Director does not correctly handle the KRB_MANAGE_KRB5_CONF configuration parameter for Cloudera Manager

When the KRB_MANAGE_KRB5_CONF parameter is absent from the Cloudera Manager deployment configuration, Altus Director incorrectly executes the Cloudera Manager deployClusterClientConfig
command during cluster bootstrap, leading to an exception. When the parameter is explicitly set to false, Altus Director deletes the parameter during deployment refresh, and incorrectly executes the
Cloudera Manager deployClusterClientConfig command during cluster update, leading to an exception.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9060



Default configurations not copied to the same role across multiple instance groups when using custom configurations

When the same service role exists across multiple virtual instance groups, Director fails to copy the existing default configurations to all versions of the role when custom
configurations are used.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9078



The regex for the ClouderaManagerRepositoryFetcher job is not configurable

Users who have custom yum repositories hosting Cloudera Manager packages cannot configure the regex for ClouderaManagerRepositoryFetcher.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9061



List of RDS encryption instance classes is out of date

The list of RDS instance classes that support encryption maintained by Altus Director is out of date, sometimes leading to Altus Director failing validation for a new external database
server.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-9069




Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.2

Director unable to install unlimited strength JCE with OpenJDK

Director is unable to properly detect the version of OpenJDK being used and thus is unable to install the unlimited strength JCE when bootstrapping a deployment if it is requested.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8957




Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.1

Incorrect migration of Cloudera Altus Director database from H2 to MySQL causes upgrade to fail

The previously published instructions for migrating Altus Director data from H2 to MySQL resulted in an incorrect schema. This schema allows Altus Director to operate, but causes
problems when you upgrade Altus Director to a later version.
The instructions in the Altus Director documentation are now fixed. To migrate Altus Director data from H2 to MySQL, follow the instructions in Migrating the Altus Director Database.
If you followed the incorrect instructions for migrating Altus Director data from H2 to MySQL, you can fix the database schema so that you do not encounter problems when you upgrade
Altus Director.
To fix the database schema in the MySQL database, complete the following steps:

Stop Altus Director.
Create a backup of the MySQL database to be fixed.
Use the mysqldump command to back up the data and create a file of the SQL commands. Back up all tables except tables with names that start with
PIPELINE_ and tables with names that end in _schema_version.
Run the following command:
$ mysqldump -u DatabaseUser -p -h DatabaseServer --no-create-info DatabaseName \
 SERVER_CONFIGS \
 USERS AUTHORITIES \
 ENVIRONMENTS \
 INSTANCE_TEMPLATES \
 DEPLOYMENTS \
 EXTERNAL_DATABASE_SERVERS \
 CLUSTERS CLUSTER_UPDATE_EVENTS > directordump.sql
The --no-create-info parameter ensures that the command does not export the incorrect schemas.

Create a new MySQL external database and configure Altus Director to use the new external database.
For more information about creating and configuring a MySQL database for Altus Director, see Using MySQL for Altus Director Server.

Start Altus Director and wait until the initialization process completes and the server is ready.
During the initialization process, Altus Director creates the required schema in the MySQL database configured for its use.

Stop Altus Director again.
Delete the default data from the AUTHORITIES, USERS, and SERVER_CONFIGS tables in the new external MySQL database.
Run the following command:
mysql -u Databaseuser -p -h DatabaseServer \
-Bse "DELETE FROM AUTHORITIES; DELETE FROM USERS; DELETE FROM SERVER_CONFIGS;" \
DatabaseName

Load the backup data into the new external MySQL database.
Run the following command:
mysql -u Databaseuser -p -h DatabaSeserver DatabaseName < directordump.sql

Start Altus Director again.


Cloudera Issue: DIR-8507



Failure to install Cloudera Manager repositories behind a proxy

When Altus Director 6.0 runs behind a proxy, it is unable to perform a remote lookup on the version of Cloudera Manager in a package repository which is available over the internet.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8758



Deployment refresh for Cloudera Manager 6 fails

Altus Director regularly refreshes its knowledge of Cloudera Manager deployments to pick up recent changes. It is common for the URL of the GPG signing key for Cloudera Manager 6
packages to be unavailable after installation. When this happens, Altus Director's refresh process fails with an exception and does not complete.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8867



The convert-remote CLI command not listed in usage message

The documented convert-remote CLI command in Altus Director Client is not listed in the usage message output by the CLI. The command works as documented.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8797



AWS "User data (unencoded)" field in Altus Director UI does not support newlines

If the user tries to provide AWS EC2 User Data that includes newlines using the "User data (unencoded)" in the UI, the specified value is not persisted properly.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8557



Lowercase Cloudera Director roles in LDAP role mappings do not work under Active Directory

When defining LDAP role mappings for Active Directory, the Cloudera Director role specified for a mapping will not work if it is specified as lower case. For example, the keyword
"admin" in the following line:
lp.security.ldapConfig.activeDirectory.roleMapping.group3Name: admin 
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8552



Failure to install Cloudera Manager repository definition when Cloudera Manager is already installed

When using an image which already has Cloudera Manager installed, Altus Director may still be instructed to install a different version, resulting in the presence of repository
definitions for two different Cloudera Manager versions. This causes Altus Director to become confused about which version is correct, resulting in failure.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8877




Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.0.1

LDAP authentication causes errors in usage-based billing

Altus Director can be configured to use a backing LDAP server, such as OpenLDAP or Active Directory, for its own user accounts. When configured as such, Altus Director fails to correctly
collect usage information from itself that is needed to perform usage-based billing. This does not affect the normal functioning of Altus Director, but only causes the creation of malformed usage
information that Cloudera is unable to process into billing records.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8905



Incorrect Kerberos administrative password in rendered HOCON

In cases where Altus Director returns HOCON for a deployment template, such as exporting a cluster configuration file, the Kerberos administrative password, if present, was rendered
instead as the Kerberos administrative username.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8791




Issues Fixed in Altus Director 6.0.0

Simple setup with CentOS or RHEL 7.4 fails in some Azure regions

OS mappings for were not defined for azure-germany and azure-us-government regions. Attempts to bootstrap a cluster using a simple setup conf file that selected these combinations would
result in a validation error. OS mappings have been added for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.4 and Cloudera-published CentOS 7.4 for Azure cloud environments where available.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8671



UI Simple Setup ignores worker count

The UI Simple Setup form ignores the value in the worker count field and always uses the default value.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8714



Custom Cloudera Manager service configurations not applied after cluster bootstrap or update

Cloudera Altus Director versions 2.7.x and 2.8.x fail to apply custom configuration properties for Cloudera Manager services, instead setting them back to automatic defaults as
determined by Cloudera Manager. Common examples of affected configuration properties are memory settings for the Cloudera Manager service monitor and host monitor services.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8470



Director fails to add worker nodes to a cluster that was created with Simple Setup

In previous versions, Director would fail to add worker nodes to a cluster that was created with Simple Setup. The error occurred because of the placement of ZooKeeper Server roles on
worker nodes. The ZooKeeper Server role has been moved to the single master node.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8699



Azure simple cluster setup fails when cluster name contains capital letters

Azure simple setup cluster installation fails when the cluster name contains capital letters.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8335



Terminating a deployment fails when the Cloudera Manager instance has been deleted without using Altus Director

If the cloud instance hosting Cloudera Manager for a deployment is deleted without going through Altus Director, then deployment termination might fail while attempting to clean up the
Kerberos credentials associated with Cloudera Manager. This failure only occurs when Altus Director cannot contact Cloudera Manager directly over its web port and must instead use an SSH tunnel to
reach it.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8331



Autorepair on Azure can remove healthy instances

An Azure cluster with autorepair enabled can have healthy instances removed if there's a failure to communicate with Azure.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8291



Erroneous error code 406 and error message returned when simple setup cluster is launched with incorrect data

When attempting to launch a cluster with the simple setup procedure, Altus Director server might return an HTTP error code of 406 with the message: Could not find
acceptable representation. This occurs when there is an error in the data supplied for the cluster, and the server is unable to formulate a correct error response. This error code and
message should not occur when the data for simple cluster setup is correct.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-8241



FirstRun command occasionally fails

When executing FirstRun, Director's list of commands was correct, but misordered. Due to the timing, this results in infrequent failures during FirstRun while bootstrapping clusters.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-7977



Swagger model schema for external databases is incorrect

The Swagger model schema for external databases is not displayed correctly.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-941




Categories: Altus | Cloud | Director | Fixed Issues | Release Notes | All Categories



Known Issues


Unsupported Components and
Features


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












