



Using Custom DNS in AWS | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation













































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedAmazon Web Services (AWS)








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Using Custom DNS in AWS

When you use Altus Director to deploy Cloudera Manager and launch CDH clusters in AWS, Amazon assigns private IP addresses and generates private DNS names for the EC2 instances. Altus
Director uses these to communicate with the EC2 instances in the cluster. Depending on the needs and policies of your organization, you can configure the following custom DNS settings:

Custom private DNS names for your EC2 instances. Use of custom private DNS names requires also configuring a custom DNS server (or Amazon Route 53).
A custom DNS server, instead of the Amazon-provided DNS server on the VPC.



Note: A good starting point for learning about using DNS in AWS is Using DNS with your VPC in the AWS documentation.



How Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Communicate with Cluster Instances

When working with the AWS DNS settings for EC2 instances created and managed by Altus Director, it is useful to understand how Altus Director and Cloudera Manager access the instances in
a cluster on AWS.


How Cloudera Manager Communicates with Cluster Instances

Whether or not you are using auto-TLS affects the way Altus Director configures Cloudera Manager to communicate among the instances.


When auto-TLS is not used, Cloudera Manager accesses cluster instances through their private IP address.
When auto-TLS is used, Cloudera Manager uses private hostnames, as well as IP addresses, to access the instances. Specifically, Cloudera Manager uses private hostnames to configure the
Cloudera Manager agents on the EC2 instances. This is because TLS certificates will be generated using the hostname, and then used for secure communication between Cloudera Manager and the
cluster.





How Altus Director Communicates with Cluster Instances



Altus Director uses the IP addresses and hostnames provided by the AWS metadata service to connect via SSH into the cluster instances. When custom hostnames have been configured on the
instances, the hostname will not match the name provided by the AWS metadata service.
In a cross-region, cross-VPC, or cross-cloud-provider configuration, Altus Director will use the private IP address if it is available, and will fall back on the private hostname,
public IP address or hostname, in that order, if it is not. For more information on these configurations, see Running Altus
Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds






Using Custom DNS Names

When users configure their own custom hostnames, the AWS metadata service does not update its record of cluster hostnames, so the hostname on the instance level is different
from the hostname on the cloud provider level.
There are two parts to configuring a custom DNS name in AWS:

Configuring a custom domain name
Configuring a custom hostname




Configuring a Custom Domain Name in AWS

The domain name is the second part of a DNS name. In the example ip-10-1-2-3.mycompany.com, the domain name is .mycompany.com. To specify a value for the domain name to be used in the VPC, follow these steps:

Create a new DHCP options set.
Set the domain name in the DHCP options set for the VPC.
Set the IP address of the DNS server in the Domain name servers field of the DHCP option set for the VPC.
Set enableDnsSupport to false so that the Amazon-provided DNS server in the VPC is not enabled.
Set up your own DNS server (or Amazon Route 53).
Add a record for your domain name to your custom DNS server (or Amazon Route 53).

You can use the Amazon-provided hostname with your custom domain name. For example: ip-private-ip-address.mycompany.com.



Configuring a Custom Hostname in AWS

The hostname is the first part of a DNS name. In the example ip-10-1-2-3.mycompany.com, the hostname is ip-10-1-2-3.

Set up the hostname. There are many ways to do this, for example, through your AMI, user data, orchestration framework (such as Chef or Ansible), or bootstrap scripts.
Add a record for your hostname to your custom DNS (or Route 53).






Using a Custom DNS Server

You can configure a custom DNS server by entering its IP address in the DHCP options set for the VPC. If you use your own DNS server, ensure that the server
can resolve hostnames in the Amazon standard format, ip-x-x-x-x, or change the name on the host to a name that the DNS server can resolve. You can either pre-populate your DNS server with the
expected names, or use a tool like nsupdate to register the hosts in the DNS server as they come up.
To specify a custom DNS server, follow these steps:

In the AWS Admin Console, choose VPC.
Disable the Amazon-provided DNS server in the VPC by setting enableDnsSupport to false.

In the VPC dashboard, select the VPC you are using.
In the Actions dropdown, click Edit DNS Resolution.
Set the value to No.


In the left hand pane, click DHCP Options sets.
Click Create DHCP options set.
Enter the IP address of your domain name server in the Domain Name Servers field.
Optionally, configure other fields in the DHCP options set and click Create DHCP options set.
In the VPC settings, specify the new DHCP options set for your VPC.
Configure your DNS server to accept updates, if possible. If you do not want your DNS server to accept updates (for example, because of your organization's security policies),
configure the DNS server with hostnames before launching the cluster. Work with your infrastructure team to ensure that the hostnames you will use are added to your DNS server.


Whether your domain names use the auto-generated format used by AWS or you create a custom hostname in a format unique to your instances, you need to ensure that your custom
DNS server can resolve the cluster hostnames. There are a number of ways to do this: by using a script, by adapting the scripts on the Cloudera GitHub site that were created for Microsoft Azure to in AWS, or by manual
configuration, or by using an orchestration framework, such as Chef or Ansible.



Categories: Altus | Cloud | DNS | Director | TLS | All Categories



Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment


Google Cloud Platform


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












