



Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation









































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedAmazon Web Services (AWS)








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace

Cloudera has made available a listing for Cloudera Altus Director in the AWS
Marketplace. The primary purpose of the Altus Director offering in the AWS Marketplace is to provide a way to establish an easy-to-use, usage-based billing arrangement with Cloudera for your CDH
clusters. This enables Cloudera to leverage the well-established billing mechanisms of AWS for single billing and predictable metering.
Outside of AWS Marketplace billing, a customer would need to have a separate contract for usage-based billing with Cloudera using a billing ID to operate on AWS. For information about
how usage-based billing works, see Usage-Based Billing.
The Altus Director offering on the AWS Marketplace includes the following AMIs:

Base image for Cloudera Altus Director. This image is for running Altus Director. Cloudera allows you to use this image for free and does not charge you
for running instances launched from it. However, you still incur the costs for running an instance in EC2.
Base image for Cloudera Manager deployed by Cloudera Altus Director. This image is for running Cloudera Manager. Cloudera allows you to use this image for
free, although you still incur the cost of running an instance in EC2.
Base image for clusters deployed by Cloudera Altus Director. This image is for running cluster services. The use of this image is not
free. You are charged both by AWS and by Cloudera for running instances launched from them.


There may be multiple versions of the AMIs for running Cloudera Manager and for running cluster services, depending on the images that Cloudera decides to include in the offering.
The listing page for Altus Director shows the costs for running cluster AMIs based on instance type. Cloudera charges you only while cluster instances are running. You have the option to
shrink or stop clusters and to stop cluster instances to reduce or eliminate charges originating from Cloudera.
When you install Altus Director through the AWS Marketplace, Cloudera bills you for metered usage of your CDH clusters through the AWS billing mechanism. Based on your requirements, this
payment model may fit the needs of your organization better than other payment models.
To subscribe to and launch Altus Director from the AWS Marketplace, follow the instructions on the Altus Director listing page.


Altus Director Enterprise License Key

Every deployment bootstrapped by Altus Director from the AWS Marketplace requires a Cloudera enterprise license key.
Contact Cloudera at partners_orders@cloudera.com to get an enterprise license key. You
must provide your AWS account ID to get the enterprise license key. The listing page for Altus Director in AWS Marketplace provides a link for you to contact Cloudera to get the license key.
You can subscribe to and launch Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace before you obtain the enterprise license key. However, you cannot create a deployment in Altus Director unless you
have an enterprise license key.
When you create a deployment, use the enterprise license key for Altus Director from the AWS Marketplace. The enterprise license key determines the billing mechanism Cloudera uses for
your clusters. Use the appropriate license key for clusters managed by Altus Director from the AWS Marketplace, even if you already have a license for another payment model. Using the correct license
key ensures that support for your clusters is established correctly.



Launching Altus Director in the Marketplace

Installing Altus Director through the AWS Marketplace is different from installing it in other ways, such as from an operating system package repository.
Altus Director provides a CloudFormation template to help you create a stack of resources in your AWS account appropriate for your Altus Director deployments. The CloudFormation template
is freely available for you to review before you subscribe to the Altus Director offering.
After you subscribe to the Altus Director offering in AWS Marketplace, you can configure and launch the offering. Altus Director launches through the CloudFormation template. The Altus
Director listing in the AWS Marketplace has full instructions and descriptions of the resources created through the CloudFormation template.
The resource stack you create through the CloudFormation template for Altus Director include the following resources:

EC2 instance. Created based on the Altus Director AMI. This is the instance where Altus Director is installed and runs.
Security group. The EC2 instance where Altus Director runs belongs to this security group.
The security group provides access to the SSH port 22 and the default Altus Director HTTP port, 7189, from the IP address range you specify as a parameter to the template.
The new security group initially contains only the instance running Altus Director. However, you may use it, or other security groups, for deployments and clusters.

IAM role. Includes the permissions necessary for Altus Director to work.
Instance profile. Associates the new IAM role with the EC2 instance where Altus Director runs.


Running the CloudFormation template does not automatically bootstrap any deployments or clusters. After you create the resource stack from the CloudFormation template, log in to the new
Altus Director instance to start creating deployments and clusters.



Guidelines for Using Altus Director from the AWS Marketplace

Some features in Altus Director installed from the AWS Marketplace work differently than in Altus Director installed through other mechanisms.

Use the following guidelines when you create and run deployments and clusters in an AWS Marketplace installation of Altus Director:

Image for an Instance Template
Cluster AMI Usage
Billing ID Not Required
Simple Setup Not Available
Passwords
Plug-ins for Other Cloud Providers
EC2 Instance Profile





Image for an Instance Template

Normally, when you create a new instance template for AWS in Altus Director, you can use any image available for your operating system. You also must provide the AMI ID, whether you
create the instance on the Altus Director UI or using a configuration file.
When you create an instance template in Altus Director installed through the AWS Marketplace, you can specify only an image that is included in the AWS Marketplace offering. On the Altus
Director UI, you specify the instance template by selecting an AMI image name. In a configuration file, you must provide the AMI ID.

Image name selection on the Altus Director UI

When you create an instance template on Altus Director UI, you cannot enter an AMI ID. Instead, the Image (AMI) ID field presents a list of image names
that correspond to the images included in the AWS Marketplace offering. You must select the appropriate image name from the list.
For an instance template to be used for a deployment, select a Cloudera Manager image name. For an instance template to be used for a cluster, select a CDH image name.

AMI ID in the Altus Director configuration file

When you use a cluster configuration file to create an instance template, you cannot use image names. You must specify an AMI ID that corresponds to an image that is included in the AWS
Marketplace offering.
An easy way to discover the correct AMI ID for a deployment or cluster is to create an instance template using the Altus Director UI, selecting the name of the image you want to use.
After creation, the instance template will contain the AMI ID.


Note: An Altus Director installation from the Marketplace does not support the use of custom AMIs, even those that are built from the AMIs included
in the Marketplace offering. Only AMIs that are in the offering are supported.



Cluster AMI Usage

The cluster AMI included in the Altus Director offering in the AWS Marketplace is not free. If you use the cluster AMI outside of Altus Director installations created from the AWS
Marketplace offering, you will be charged for any cost incurred by any instance launched from it.
Although you can use it in other scenarios, be aware that it is not designed for such use and running instances based on it triggers charges from both AWS and Cloudera. To avoid
unexpected charges, only use the AWS Marketplace cluster AMI in Altus Director installations based on your Marketplace subscription.



Billing ID Not Required

Altus Director from the AWS Marketplace rejects deployment templates that include a billing ID.
A separate usage-based billing mechanism supported by Altus Director requires you to provide a billing ID along with an enterprise license when creating a new deployment. For information
about usage-based billing, see Usage-Based Billing.
When you create a deployment template for Altus Director installed through the AWS Marketplace, a billing ID is unnecessary. The use of the cluster AMIs included in the Marketplace
offering is sufficient to enable metered billing.
If you already have a billing ID, you may continue to use it in other Altus Director installations.



Simple Setup Not Available

The simple setup procedure, which
provides a quick path to bootstrapping a cluster, is not available in Altus Director installed from the Marketplace.



Passwords

The passwords for logging in to Altus Director are randomized for each installation created from the AWS Marketplace offering. The passwords are stored in directorpasswords.txt in the home directory of the centos user account. To view the passwords, log in as the centos user via SSH to the EC2 instance where Altus Director runs.
The directorpasswords.txt file contains the password for the admin user, represented by the lp.security.bootstrap.admin.password property, and the password for the guest user, represented by the lp.security.bootstrap.guest.password.
The following example shows the password properties in the directorpasswords.txt file:
lp.security.bootstrap.admin.password: XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
lp.security.bootstrap.guest.password: YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
lp.database.username: dbuser
lp.database.password: ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ

Use the default passwords to initially log in to Altus Director. After you log in, change the passwords to maintain security.



Plug-ins for Other Cloud Providers

An Altus Director installation created from the Marketplace offering includes only the cloud provider plug-in for AWS. It does not include plug-ins for any other public cloud provider.
You can create an environment only for AWS.



EC2 Instance Profile

The EC2 instance where Altus Director installed from the Marketplace runs has an instance profile which grants all the permissions necessary for Altus Director to work. When you create
an environment, it is not necessary to supply an access key ID and secret access key. The permissions from the instance profile are inherited.
If you supply access keys, Altus Director operations use the roles associated with the keys instead of the instance profile.




Categories: AWS | Altus Director | Getting Started | All Categories



Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance


Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












