



Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI

Before initially launching a CDH cluster, you can use the Altus Director web UI to add, delete, or modify the default roles and instance groups. You can also add, remove, or repair
instances in an existing cluster.

Continue reading:

Configuring Instance Groups During Cluster Creation
Modifying the Number of Instances in an Existing Cluster
Repairing Worker and Gateway Instances in a Cluster




Configuring Instance Groups During Cluster Creation

An instance group is a collection of roles that are installed together on one or more instances. When Altus Director creates a CDH cluster, it includes three
default instance groups: masters, workers, and gateway. Each of these instance groups contains roles of the type represented by that instance group, for the CDH services selected for the cluster. For
example, if your cluster includes HDFS and YARN, the masters instance group includes the following roles:

For HDFS - NameNode, SecondaryNameNode, Balancer
For YARN - ResourceManager, JobHistory Server

The workers instance group will include the following roles:

For HDFS - DataNode
For YARN - NodeManager

The gateway instance group includes a gateway role for HDFS and another for YARN.
For an introduction to master, worker, and gateway roles, see the Cloudera Manager 5 Overview .
Although the default instance groups are automatically configured with roles of a given type (masters, workers, or gateway), you can add any kind of role to any instance group.
When you create a cluster with Altus Director, a default set of instance groups and roles, based on the CDH services you include, is displayed in the Instance Groups section of the Add
Cluster page:



By clicking Edit Roles, you can see the roles included in each instance group. These roles will be installed on each instance running that instance
group. In this example, by clicking Edit Roles for the workers instance group above, you can see that each of the 10 instances that will be installed for the workers
instance group will include two roles, an HDFS DataNode and a YARN NodeManager:



You can modify the default configuration of instance groups during cluster creation by doing the following:

Change the number of instances for an instance group by clicking the up or down arrows.
Delete an instance group by clicking Delete Group at the right end of the row for that instance group.
Add roles to an existing instance group by clicking Edit Roles and then Add Role. Available roles for the services
in the cluster are displayed. Click a role to add it to the instance group.
Add another instance group to the cluster by clicking Add Group, entering a name for the instance group and assigning roles to it, selecting an
instance template, and clicking the up or down arrows to choose the number of instances to install.





Modifying the Number of Instances in an Existing Cluster

Altus Director can grow or shrink the size of an existing cluster by adding or removing instances.


How to Add Instances to a Cluster


Log in to Altus Director at http://director-server-hostname:7189. Altus Director opens on the All Environments page,
which displays the current environments, deployments, and clusters. Click the cluster you want to modify.
Click Modify Cluster to the right of the cluster name. The Modify Cluster page displays the gateway, masters, and workers instance groups and any
additional instance groups that have been added to the cluster, with the current number of instances in each instance group.
You can add instances to an existing instance group or create a new instance group and add roles to it.

To add instances to an existing instance group, click Edit to the right of the instance group and click the up or down arrows in the Add Instances section to increase the number of workers and gateways to the desired size. Each new instance will contain the same roles as the existing instances of that
group.
To create a new instance group, click Add Group, enter a name for the instance group, assign roles to it, select an instance template, and click the
up or down arrows to choose the desired number of instances of that group to add.


Click Continue to confirm, and add the new instances or group to the cluster.

Note: Cloudera recommends rebalancing the cluster through Cloudera Manager if you increase the number of HDFS DataNodes by 30% or more. For more
information, see Rebalancing the Cluster After Adding or Removing Instances.


Ensure Consistency of Instances before Modify Operations

Operations that modify a cluster, such as grow and clone operations, require all the instances in an instance group to be consistent, that is, to have the same role assignments and
configurations in Cloudera Manager, and the same properties, such as instance type and image, in the cloud provider.
With Altus Director 2.5 and higher, the cluster refresher will detect changes to the instances in Cloudera Manager and in the cloud provider. If the instances in an instance group are
inconsistent, the UI will flag the inconsistent instances and prevent grow operations on the cluster. During this time, clone operations on the cluster will fail. Using Cloudera Manager or your cloud
provider's tools, you must change role assignments or configurations, or change properties in the cloud provider, such as instance type or image, to make the instances in your instance groups
consistent. Once all the instances in the virtual instance group are consistent, the instance template will be updated, and subsequent grow operations on the group, or clone operations on the
cluster, will use the new role assignments and configurations, and the new cloud provider properties.
If you are unable to make the instances consistent, you can use the following workarounds. If you created your cluster from a configuration file, you can edit the configuration file
before using it to create a new cluster. And if you created the cluster via the UI, you can use the export functionality to get a configuration file, and edit that configuration file to create a new
cluster with consistency of instances within instance groups.




How to Remove Instances from a Cluster


Log in to Altus Director at http://director-server-hostname:7189.
Altus Director opens on the All Environments page, which displays the current environments, deployments, and clusters. Click the cluster you want to modify.

Click Modify Cluster to the right of the cluster name. The Modify Cluster page displays the gateway, masters, and workers instance groups and any
additional instance groups that have been added to the cluster, with the current number of instances in each instance group.
You can remove an entire instance group, including all of its instances, or remove individual instances from an instance group:

To remove an entire instance group, click Delete Group at the right end of the row for that instance group.
To remove individual instances from an instance group, click Edit near the right end of the row for the instance group. Click the checkbox for each
instance you want to remove, and click the Delete button. The instances you select display an action status of To be deleted.


Click OK to continue, Reset to unselect the selected instances and make a new selection, or Cancel to stop without making any changes.
Click Continue to confirm, and delete the selected instances.

Note:

It is important to maintain the number of HDFS DataNode role instances at or above the HDFS replication factor configured for the cluster. By default, Cloudera recommends a replication
factor of three.
Altus Director decommissions instances before removing them from the cluster. When decommissioning an HDFS DataNode, Cloudera Manager moves all the blocks from that instance to other
instances so that the replication factor is maintained, and there is no risk of data loss.
You cannot delete an instance with an HDFS DataNode if the number of DataNodes equals the replication factor (which by default is three) of any file stored in HDFS. For example, if the
replication factor of any file is three, and you have three DataNodes, you cannot delete an instance with a DataNode.
Cloudera recommends rebalancing the cluster through Cloudera Manager if you reduce the number of HDFS DataNodes by 30% or more. For more information, see Rebalancing the Cluster After Adding or Removing Instances.





Rebalancing the Cluster After Adding or Removing Instances

After you add or remove instances from a cluster, HDFS data is likely to be distributed unevenly across DataNodes. Altus Director does not rebalance HDFS when you add instances or remove
them from the cluster. If you need to rebalance the cluster, you must do so manually as described in HDFS Balancers in the Cloudera Manager documentation.
The need for rebalancing depends on the amount of data in HDFS and the number of instances added or removed during the cluster. Rebalancing is required only when there is a large
movement of data. Cloudera recommends rebalancing the cluster through Cloudera Manager if you increase or reduce the number of DataNodes by 30% or more.




Repairing Worker and Gateway Instances in a Cluster


Log in to Altus Director at http://director-server-hostname:7189
Altus Director opens on the All Environments page, which displays the current environments, deployments, and clusters. Click the cluster you want to modify.

Click Modify Cluster to the right of the cluster name. The Modify Cluster page displays the gateway, masters, and workers instance groups and any
additional instance groups that have been added to the cluster, with the current number of instances in each instance group.
Click Edit next to the instance count for workers or gateways to repair, and select the instances to repair.
Click the Repair button above the list of instances. The instances you selected display an action status of To be
repaired.
Click OK to continue, Reset to unselect the selected instances and make a new selection, or Cancel to stop without making any changes.
Click Continue to confirm and repair the selected instances.

Note: The above procedure is for worker and gateway roles, not for master roles. Because master roles have state, repairing them requires migrating
the roles from one host to another. For information on migrating HDFS master roles, see Migrating HDFS Master
Roles.



Categories: Altus Director | Cloudera Manager | Configuring | All Categories



Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Altus Director Scripts


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












