



Altus Director Interfaces | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation







































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Introduction








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Altus Director Interfaces

Altus Director provides different user interfaces for centralized deployment, configuration, and administration of Cloudera Manager and CDH clusters in the cloud. After you complete the
Altus Director installation, you can use any interface to deploy Cloudera Manager and CDH clusters in the cloud. To manage the CDH deployment, use the interface that is appropriate for the complexity
of the configuration or administrative tasks that you need to perform.
Altus Director provides the following user interfaces:

Web User Interface (Web UI) - The web UI is a graphical interface to deploy and manage clusters in the cloud. You can use the web UI to monitor
the clusters and access the cluster activity logs.
Command Line Interface (CLI) - The command line interface uses a configuration file to define the settings for a cluster. The configuration file
allows you to deploy clusters with custom settings and without operator intervention.
API - You can use the Altus Director API to programmatically control the lifecycle of your clusters. Cloudera provides SDKs for the Python and
Java programming languages.




Web User Interface

After you install the Altus Director server, you can use a browser to access the Altus Director web UI.
The web UI has a dashboard that shows the available environments and displays information about the Cloudera Manager deployments and the clusters in the deployment. Use the setup wizard
in the web UI to easily and quickly deploy clusters in the cloud. You can also use the web UI to define environments, deployments, and clusters, add nodes to clusters, or clone clusters.
When you use the web UI to deploy a cluster, Altus Director saves the state of the cluster in the Altus Director database. The database can store deployment information about multiple
environments, deployments, and clusters that are deployed and managed by Altus Director. The deployment information in the database allows Altus Director to create additional clusters in the managed
deployments.
By default, Altus Director saves deployment information in an H2 database, but the H2 database is only supported for proof-of-concept clusters or for testing. Configure Altus Director to
use an externally managed MySQL or MariaDB database for production clusters. Specify an external database in the application.properties file in the server host. For
more information, see Configuring Storage for Altus Director.
If you use the web UI to deploy Cloudera Manager and CDH, you can use the web UI or API to manage the Cloudera Manager deployment, terminate clusters, or deploy additional clusters. You
can use the command line interface to deploy more clusters or to terminate clusters. You can also use the web UI to manage clusters if you use the command line interface or API to deploy them.
You can use the web UI to perform most configuration and administrative tasks on a Cloudera Manager deployment. When you perform a complex or customized deployment or configuration, you
might have to use the command line interface with a configuration file or to use the API. For example, you cannot update the TLS settings of a deployment on the web UI. You must use the CLI or the
API to enable or disable TLS in a deployment.



Command Line Interface

To use the Altus Director command line interface, you must install the Altus Director client in addition to the server. You can install the Altus Director client separately from the
server. You can install the client in multiple locations, with all clients communicating with the same Altus Director server in the cloud.
When you run a command, the client connects to the server to complete the operation. To connect to the server, the client requires the host and user account information for the Altus
Director server.
When you use the command line interface to deploy a cluster, the state of the cluster is saved in the Altus Director database. The database can store deployment information about
multiple environments, deployments, and clusters that are deployed and managed by Altus Director. The deployment information in the database allows Altus Director to create additional clusters within
the managed deployments.
If you use the command line interface to deploy a cluster, you can use the web UI or the API to manage the cluster.


Application Properties File

When you install the Altus Director client, the installation creates a configuration file named application.properties. The properties file includes
configuration properties such as the Altus Director server host, port number, and user account. You can modify the settings in the application.properties file based on
your operational requirements.
By default, the command line interface reads the settings in the application.properties file on the client host to determine the parameters of a command.
When you run a command, you can override properties in the application.properties file by passing the properties directly to the command. For example, you can pass the
hostname and port number for the Altus Director server. If you do not include these properties in the command, the command reads the properties from the application.properties file.



Cluster Configuration File

A template is a common and useful way to define the configuration and infrastructure of a cloud deployment. Altus Director uses a configuration file as a template for cluster deployments
in the cloud. You can use the configuration file to define your cluster deployment across different cloud environments.
The Altus Director command line interface uses a configuration file to determine the deployment configuration for a cluster. When you use the command line interface to deploy a cluster,
you must provide the configuration file name. The command reads the file you specify and deploys a cluster configured with the settings defined in the configuration file.
You can create multiple configuration files to deploy clusters with different settings, or you can reuse a configuration file to deploy multiple clusters with the same settings. Cloudera
provides sample configuration files that you can use as templates to start a configuration file for your cluster deployment. You can find the sample configuration files on the Altus Director scripts GitHub page.



Commands

The command line interface includes the following commands:




Command
Description




bootstrap-remote

Creates an environment, deployment, and cluster on a remote server based on the settings in a configuration file. The configuration file name must have a .conf extension. The
bootstrap-remote command reads the configuration file and creates a cluster with the configuration settings defined in the file. As with Director UI installations,
bootstrap-remote speeds up the bootstrap process by configuring Cloudera Manager and the CDH cluster in parallel.
To ensure that the command connects to the Altus Director server correctly, you can pass server host and user account properties to the command. The bootstrap-remote command uses the values you pass to connect to the server instead of the values in the application.properties file. For example, you
can pass the following properties:

lp.remote.hostAndPort=host[:port]
Hostname and port number of the Altus Director server. The default value in the application.properties file is set to localhost:7189.

lp.remote.username=<Altus Director server username>
Username to use to log in to the Altus Director server.

lp.remote.password=<Altus Director server password>
Password for the Altus Director server user account.






terminate-remote

Terminates a cluster and deployment on a remote server.
As in the bootstrap-remote command, you can pass the hostname and port number to connect to the Altus Director server and the username and password to log
in to Altus Director.



validate-remote

Validates the configuration file of an environment, deployment, or cluster. For clusters, it validates the correctness of the role and service types, but not the configuration
keys, values, or semantics of the role placement.
You can set the lp.validate.verbose property to true to output an HTML representation of the configuration.



convert-remote
Converts a simple configuration file to a standard configuration file. For more information, see Converting a Configuration File from Simple to Standard Format.








API

Altus Director has an API that provides access to all Altus Director features. The Altus Director API is a REST API that uses JSON as the data interchange format.
Use the API to access Altus Director from a script or to integrate Altus Director features with an application. The API includes SDKs to help you integrate Altus Director into Python or
Java applications. You can use the API to deploy Cloudera Manager and CDH clusters on any cloud environment supported by Altus Director. You can find information about the Altus Director Java and
Python APIs on the Altus Director SDK GitHub page.
The API includes a console to assist the development process. You can use the API console during development to interactively configure settings or perform ad hoc operations on the
cluster in the cloud. You can also use it to explore Altus Director features and to test and troubleshoot clusters. You can access the API console for your deployment at http://director-server-hostname:7189/api-console.



Altus Director Interface Usage

The following table shows the tasks you can perform in the different Director interfaces:




Task
Web UI
Command line Interface
API




Deploy simple clusters





Deploy complex clusters with Kerberos or high availability
 




Deploy in production
 




View dashboard of cluster deployment

 
 


Manage multiple clusters





Add nodes to clusters

 



Remove nodes from clusters

 



Clone clusters





Update Cloudera Manager password

 



Terminate clusters










Categories: Altus Director | All Categories



Displaying Altus Director Documentation


Release Notes


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












