



Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Using Cloud Provider Regions








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director

Altus Director's AWS support, embodied in a plugin, ships with a predefined, known set of AWS regions. Cloudera adds support for additional regions when possible in new Altus Director
releases. But, because you might want to use a new region before it has been added in a new release, Altus Director makes it possible to add the new region yourself.
Note: Examples here use the region code xy-east-1 as an example of a new region. Use the code for the region you
want to use instead.

For more information about AWS regions, see Regions and
Availability Zones in the AWS documentation.


Entering the Region Code

When using its web interface, Altus Director asks you which region to use when you define a new AWS environment. You can select the region for EC2, where instances hosting Cloudera
Manager and cluster components run, and for RDS, where an external database server can house databases for Cloudera Manager and services like Hive and Oozie.
The region selection widgets are ordinary drop-down menus, but the menus are also editable. To use a region that isn't listed, just type in its region code.
When you use Altus Director's configuration file support for defining new deployments and clusters, you don't have any widgets. Simply supply the region code for EC2 and RDS in the
expected locations.

EC2 region: in the provider section, as the region field
RDS region: in the provider section, as the rdsRegion field. If the region is not specified, it defaults to the EC2
region





Region Endpoints

In most cases, Altus Director can figure out the AWS endpoints for the different services in a region, so just naming the new region is enough to get things moving. If you receive errors
that an AWS service could not be reached, you might need to specify some endpoints, as described below for RDS, IAM, and KMS.
For general information about region endpoints in AWS, see AWS Regions and Endpoints in
the AWS documentation.


RDS

If you plan on using RDS, you must supply the RDS endpoint for your chosen region. There are two ways to do this.


Using the web UI interface, specify the endpoint URL directly when you define your environment. In the web interface, expand the Advanced Options
section under RDS (Relational Database Service) and enter the endpoint URL for RDS region endpoint. In a configuration file, give
the URL as the value for the rdsRegionEndpoint field in the provider section. Here is what an endpoint URL looks like:
rdsRegionEndpoint: https://rds.xy-east-1.amazonaws.com


Rather than specifying the RDS endpoint URL with each environment you create, you can supply it in a configuration file that is read by Altus Director's AWS plugin, so it will be used
for all environments created with that instance of Altus Director. The configuration file is named rds.endpoints.properties and, by default, resides in the directory
/var/lib/cloudera-director-plugins/aws-provider-version/etc/. The version number for the aws-provider part of the
path changes with most Altus Director releases, as the plugin changes version. For example, aws-provider-1.4.1 matches with Altus Director 2.4. So the path and file
name with Altus Director 2.4 would be as follows:
/var/lib/cloudera-director-plugins/aws-provider-1.4.1/etc/rds.endpoints.properties
Altus Director ships with an example of the file that you can use as a template: rds.endpoints.properties.example. Copy this file to a new rds.endpoints.properties file in that directory, and add a line for the RDS endpoint URL, for example:
xy-east-1=https://rds.xy-east-1.amazonaws.com


After adding a new endpoint, restart Altus Director if it is running.



IAM

The IAM service is normally accessed using a single, global endpoint that works across all AWS regions. Some regions, however, have their own IAM endpoint. If you are using such a
region, supply its custom IAM endpoint. When using the web interface, expand the Advanced Options section under EC2 (Elastic Compute
Cloud) on the environment page, and enter the endpoint URL for IAM endpoint. In a configuration file, specify it in the field iamEndpoint in the provider section.
iamEndpoint: https://iam.xy-east-1.amazonaws.com



KMS

Altus Director normally computes the expected KMS endpoint for your chosen region. If that process fails, then you can provide the endpoint URL yourself. In the web interface, expand
the Advanced Options section under EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) on the environment page, and enter the endpoint URL for KMS region endpoint. In a configuration file, specify it in the field kmsEndpoint in the provider section.
kmsEndpoint: https://kms.xy-east-1.amazonaws.com




Other Considerations

A new AWS region usually does not support the full range of services and features that are available in older, established regions. It's important to understand what services and
features your chosen region lacks, so that you do not request them through Altus Director. Altus Director does not retain knowledge on which regions have which services available.
Here are some examples of items that can work in older regions but not fully, or at all, in newer ones.

AMIs - common "stock" AMIs might not exist for new regions
instance types - deprecated instance types are often left out of new regions
dedicated instances (tenancy)
Spot blocks
RDS instance encryption





Categories: AWS | Altus Director | Configuring | Regions | All Categories



Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds


Configuring Storage for Altus Director


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












