



Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions














View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Altus Director 2.2 and higher supports the use of Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes with Cloudera Manager and CDH cluster instances. You can use EBS volumes to store HDFS data,
stage data for processing, or install other applications. EBS can provide an efficient and cost-effective alternative to S3 or other storage mechanisms.
EBS volumes for a Cloudera Manager or CDH cluster instance have the same lifecycle as the instance. EBS volumes are terminated when the instance is terminated. Repair of an instance does
not result in the remounting of an existing EBS volume; a new volume is used.
An advantage of using EBS volumes for cluster storage is that it allows you to pause your cluster and stop the associated EC2 instances during periods of inactivity. You will still be
billed for your EBS volumes while the cluster is paused, but will not be billed for the stopped EC2 instances. For information on pausing a cluster, see Pausing a Cluster on AWS.

Note: If auto-repair is enabled on a cluster that uses EBS, you must disable auto-repair for the cluster before stopping either the cluster or the
Cloudera Manager instance that manages it. For more information about auto-repair, see Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated
Instances.



EBS Volume Types

Altus Director supports the EBS volume types gp2, io1, st1, and sc1:




EBS volume type
Minimum and Maximum Size
Usage




gp2
1 GiB - 16 TiB
General-purpose SSD (solid state drive) volume that balances price and performance for a wide variety of transactional
workloads.


io1
4 GiB - 16 TiB
Provisioned IOPS SSD (solid state drive) volume. Highest-performance SSD volume for mission-critical low-latency or
high-throughput workloads.
Note: When configuring io1 volumes in an instance template, specify the IOPS value (the number of I/O operations per second to provision for the
volume).



st1
500 GiB - 16 TiB
Low-cost HDD (hard disk drive) volume designed for frequently accessed, throughput-intensive workloads.


sc1
500 GiB - 16 TiB
Lowest-cost HDD (hard disk drive) volume designed for less frequently accessed workloads.





For more information, see Amazon EBS Volume Types.


Amazon EC2 Instance Stores

Instance stores, like EBS, provide block storage for EC2 instances, but they cannot be used together with EBS volumes. Instance store volumes are located on disks that are physically
attached to the host computer, and they are optionally included with many EC2 instance types.
Important: Altus Director does not support using instance store volumes together with EBS volumes for the same EC2 instance. All block storage
volumes in an instance should be the same size, capacity, and type.

If an instance type has instance store volumes and you do not specify EBS volumes, Altus Director automatically mounts all the instance store volumes that are available. If you
do specify EBS volumes, Altus Director does not mount instance store volumes.
For more information on EC2 instance stores, see Amazon EC2 Instance
Stores in the AWS documentation.




Configuring EBS Volumes

You configure EBS volumes in the instance template in the web UI or in the instance section of the configuration file for clusters launched with the CLI and bootstrap-remote.


Configuring an EBS Volume with the Web UI

To configure EBS volumes in the web UI, provide the required values in the Advanced Options section of the instance template.
Note: The configuration settings below do not apply to the root volume, but only to additional EBS volumes. Configuration settings for root volumes
depend on the AMIs you have chosen for the instances.





EBS Optimized: Specify whether to enable EBS Optimized I/O. This optimization isn't available with all instance types. Some instance types are EBS
optimized by default regardless of this flag. Additional usage charges may apply when using an EBS-optimized instance.
EBS Volume Count: The number of EBS volumes to mount. Altus Director will create and attach these volumes to the provisioned instance. These added volumes
will be deleted when the instance is terminated from Altus Director.
EBS Volume Size (GiB): The size of the additional EBS volumes to mount. Specifying a size outside the ranges defined in the table above causes cluster
deployment to fail.
EBS Volume Type: The EBS volume type for the additional EBS volumes. Supported volumes are Throughput Optimized HDD (st1), Cold HDD (dc1), General Purpose
SSD (gp2), and Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1). All EBS volumes for an instance must be of the same type.
EBS IOPS Count: The number of I/O operations per second (IOPS) to provision for the volume. Only valid and required for Provisioned IOPS (io1) SSD
volumes.
Enable EBS Encryption: Whether to enable encryption for the additional EBS volumes. Note that the encryption does not apply to the root volume.
EBS Key ID: The full ARN of the KMS Custom Master Key (CMK) to use when encrypting volumes. If encryption is enabled and this is blank, the default CMK
will be used. Note that encryption does not apply to the root volume.





Configuring EBS Volumes with the Configuration File

To configure EBS volumes in the configuration file for launching clusters with bootstrap-remote, provide the required values and uncomment them in the EBS
Volumes section of the file:
  #
  # EBS Volumes
  #
  # Director can create and attach additional EBS volumes to the instance. These volumes
  # will be automatically deleted when the associated instance is terminated. These
  # properties don't apply to the root volume.
  #
  # See http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSVolumes.html
  #

  # ebsVolumeCount : 0
  # ebsVolumeType: st1      # Specify either st1, sc1, gp2 or io1 volume type
  # ebsVolumeSizeGiB: 500
  # ebsIops: 500            # Number of IOPS, only valid and required for io1 volume type

  #
  # EBS Volume Encryption
  #
  # Encryption can be enabled on the additional EBS volumes. An optional CMK can
  # be specified for volume encryption. Not setting a CMK means the default CMK
  # for EBS will be used. The encryption here does not apply to the root volume.
  #
  # See http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSEncryption.html
  #

  # enableEbsEncryption: false
  # ebsKmsKeyId: "arn:aws:kms:REPLACE-ME" # full ARN of the KMS CMK

  #
  # EBS Optimized
  #
  # Specify whether to enable EBS Optimized I/O. This optimization isn't available
  # with all instance types. Some instance types are EBS Optimized by default
  # regardless of this flag. Additional usage charges may apply when using an
  # EBS-optimized instance.
  #
  # See http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EBSOptimized.html
  #

  # ebsOptimized : false



EBS Volume Encryption

Data in EBS volumes can be encrypted at rest. You use two properties for configuring EBS encryption:

enableEbsEncryption: Labeled Enable EBS Encryption in the web UI. Set to true or
false. If this value is set to true, the data on EBS volumes created with this instance template will be encrypted.
ebsKmsKeyId: Labeled EBS KMS Key ID in the web UI. The key used to encrypt data in the EBS volumes. KMS includes a
default master key for each service that supports encryption, including EBS. If you leave this field empty, Altus Director configures the EBS volumes to use the KMS default master key for EBS.
Alternatively, you can import a custom master key from your own key management infrastructure into KMS and specify it here to be used for the EBS service. To specify a custom master key, enter the
full Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the custom master key that you have stored in
KMS: arn:aws:kms:your_key_name. For example:
arn:aws:kms:us-west-1:635144601417:key/39b8cdf2-923e-721b-9c6c-652a7e517d72

Important: If you specify a custom master key for EBS, you must also add the KMS policy DescribeKey to your IAM
policy file so that Altus Director can validate the custom master key. For more information and a sample IAM policy file that includes DescribeKey, see Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies.

For more information about EBS encryption, see Amazon EBS Encryption in
the AWS documentation. For more information about KMS, see AWS Key Management Service Details in the AWS
documentation.


Creating an Encrypted Root Volume

AWS does not support creating an encrypted root volume as part of the process of spinning up an EC2 instance. To create an encrypted root volume, begin with an AMI that already has an
encrypted root volume. Instances launched from such an AMI will also have encrypted root volumes. The AWS account that Altus Director uses must have the necessary permissions to use an AMI with an
encrypted root volume.
Note: If you use an AMI with an unencrypted root volume, and configure Altus Director to encrypt the additional EBS volumes, Altus Director will
not also encrypt the root volume. If the AMI does have an encrypted root volume, it will still be encrypted for the new instance.





Configuring Device Names for EBS Volumes and Instance Store Volumes

When requesting EC2 instances in Altus Director with additional EBS volumes or requesting an instance that contains instance store volumes, Altus Director will automatically assign
device names to the volumes. For more information about device names in EC2, see Device
Naming on Linux Instances in the AWS documentation. You can configure the way the device names are assigned to the volumes. This might be necessary to ensure that the device names used by Altus
Director doesn't overlap with any additional volumes associated with an AMI.
By default, AWS creates instance store volumes with device names /dev/sdb, /dev/sdc, /dev/sdd, and so on. You can configure the device name prefix and starting character by adding the following section in etc/aws-plugin.conf under the
AWS plugin directory.
ephemeralDeviceMappings {
    deviceNamePrefix: /dev/sd
    rangeStart: b
}
By default, AWS creates EBS volumes with device names /dev/sdf, /dev/sdg, /dev/sdh, and so
on. The device name prefix and starting character can be configured by adding the following section in etc/aws-plugin.conf under the AWS plugin directory.
ebsDeviceMappings {
    deviceNamePrefix: /dev/sd
    rangeStart: f
}
Note that Altus Director does not attach both instance store volumes and EBS volumes at the same time. If you specify EBS volumes, instance store volumes will not be attached.




Categories: Altus Director | Cloudera Manager | Configuring | Databases | All Categories



Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Security, Encryption, and High
Availability


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












