



Known Issues and Workarounds in Altus Director | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Release
Notes








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Known Issues and Workarounds in Altus Director

The following sections describe the current known issues in Altus Director.


Hue service in CDH 6 that uses the wrong version of Python fails to start

The Hue service included in CDH 6.x requires Python 2.7 and the psycopg2 PostgreSQL database adapter
library. The Psycopg adapter required by the Hue service is a newer version than the Psycopg adapter version used by the Cloudera Manager 6.0 agent package. The Python version required by Hue may be
different from the versions provided in the operating systems.
If the Python and Psycopg adapter versions available to CDH 6.x and the Hue service are not the required versions, the Hue service fails to start. The error shows as a First Run failure
where the Hue Server role fails to start, sending Altus Director into a failure state for the cluster.
If you are using CM 6.1 or higher, and Hue is installed on RHEL / CentOS 7.x, the required version of Python and the Psycopg adapter library is installed by default.
If you are using Cloudera Manager 6.0.x or if Hue is installed on RHEL or CentOS 6.x, Altus Director provides a bootstrap script that installs the correct version of Python and the Psycopg adapter library.
Workaround for Cloudera Manager 6.0.x or RHEL or CentOS 6.x: You can use the bootstrap script provided by Altus Director to bootstrap CDH 6.x clusters with
the Hue service.
You can use the bootstrap script in one of the following ways:


Use the bootstrap script in a configuration file or in the Altus Director web UI.
For information about how to use the script file with a configuration file or the web UI, see the details about how the script works in the readme file.


Perform the work done in the bootstrap script on a preloaded AMI.
When the work is done ahead of time, the bootstrap script is not needed.



Cloudera Issue: DIR-8665



Added instance groups are not configured based on their instance type

Newly added instance groups are not automatically configured. Roles on the new instances will be given the same configuration as existing roles even if the new instance uses a different
instance type than the old instances.
Workaround: Update the role group in Cloudera Manager after the cluster update completes.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-5102



Edited or cloned Altus Director 2.8 instance templates for Azure do not work as expected

In Altus Director 6.0, the Azure instance template defaults to using managed disks.
If you edit and save an instance template created in Altus Director 2.8 that uses storage account, the saved template changes the settings to use managed disks instead of storage
disks.
If you clone an instance template created in Altus Director 2.8 that uses storage account, the new template changes the settings to use managed disks instead of storage disks.
Workaround: Use instance templates created in Altus Director 2.8 without editing or cloning. If you need to change a template, use the CLI to deploy
clusters with storage accounts.



Environment deletion fails with a 500 response code

Altus Director evicts terminated deployment, cluster, and external database server entities from its database before removing the environment. Altus Director also performs the same
eviction on a periodic basis. A 500 response may be returned if the two evictions occur concurrently.
Workaround: Retry environment deletion.



Maximum length of environment name is misleading

Parsing of a Altus Director configuration file can produce errors indicating that the environment name and, sometimes additionally, the deployment name are too long, even though the
names were not specified in the file. This is a consequence of Altus Director automatically generating those names, based on the cluster name, when they are not explicitly given in the file. When the
cluster name is long, the automatically-generated names exceed the length limits.
Workaround: Provide explicit names for the environment and deployment in the configuration file. Examples:
environmentName: MyEnvironment
deploymentName: MyDeployment
Cloudera Issue: DIR-6301



AWS rate limiting due to large number of EBS volumes

Standing up a cluster with a large number of EBS volumes might trigger rate limiting on EBS allocation requests. The effect can spread to other calls from Altus Director to AWS.
Workaround: No more than 10 EBS volumes should be attached at a time.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-4283



Altus Director cannot deploy Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server

Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server cannot be one of the services deployed by Altus Director.
Workaround: Set up Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server via Cloudera Manager if using Altus Director 2.4 and above.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-1757



Changes to Cloudera Manager username and password must also be made in Altus Director

If the Cloudera Manager username and password are changed directly in Cloudera Manager, Altus Director can no longer add new instances or authenticate with Cloudera Manager. Username and
password changes must be implemented in Altus Director as well. For more information on keeping Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in sync, see CDH Cluster Management Tasks.
Workaround: Use the Altus Director web UI to update the Cloudera Manager username and password.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-690



Altus Director might use AWS credentials from instance of Altus Director server

Altus Director Server uses the AWS credentials from a configured Environment, as defined in a client configuration file or through the Altus Director web UI. If the Environment is not
configured with credentials in Altus Director, the Altus Director server instead uses the AWS credentials that are configured on the instance on which the Altus Director server is running. When those
credentials differ from the intended ones, EC2 instances might be allocated under unexpected accounts. Ensure that the Altus Director server instance is not configured with AWS credentials.
Severity: Medium
Workaround: Ensure that the Altus Director Environment has correct values for the keys. Alternatively, use IAM profiles for the Altus Director server
instance.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-1040



Root partition resize fails on CentOS 6.5 (HVM)

Altus Director cannot resize the root partition on Centos 6.5 HVM AMIs. This is caused by a bug in the AMIs. For more information, see the CentOS Bug Tracker.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-757



When using RDS and MySQL, Hive Metastore canary can fail in Cloudera Manager

If you include Hive in your clusters and configure the Hive metastore to be installed on MySQL, Cloudera Manager might report, "The Hive Metastore canary failed to create a database."
This is caused by a MySQL bug in MySQL 5.6.5 or higher that is exposed when used with the MySQL JDBC driver (used by Altus Director) version 5.1.19 or lower. For information on the MySQL bug, see the
MySQL bug description.
Workaround: Depending on the driver version installed by Altus Director from your platform's software repositories, select an older MySQL version that does
not have this bug.
Cloudera Issue: DIR-923



Categories: Altus Director | Known Issues | Release Notes | All Categories



New Features and Changes


Fixed Issues


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












