



Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDHUsing an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX

Cloudera Shared Data Experience (SDX) for Altus enables you to share cluster metadata and security policies between workloads and clusters running in the cloud. You can set up Cloudera
SDX to share data between CDH clusters in an Altus Director deployment and Altus Data Warehouse and Altus Data Engineering clusters.
Cloudera SDX requires external databases for Hive metastore and Sentry that can be accessed by clusters that need to share metadata and security policies. You can set up Cloudera SDX for
Altus clusters sharing metadata in AWS or for clusters sharing metadata on Azure.
To set up Cloudera SDX, complete the following steps:

In Altus Director, deploy clusters with external databases for Hive metastore and Sentry.
In Altus services, create secure clusters that use a configured SDX namespace pointing to the external databases for Hive metastore and Sentry.


For more information about setting up Cloudera SDX to share cluster metadata and security policies between CDH clusters, see Cloudera Altus Director SDX Integration in the Cloudera Engineering Blog site.


Deploying Clusters with Cloudera SDX in Altus Director

When you deploy clusters in Director that would share data with Altus Data Warehouse and Altus Data Engineering clusters, you must configure the clusters to use external databases for
the Hive metastore and for the Sentry service. You can set up the services to use existing databases or configure Altus Director to set up an external database server and create the databases and
schemas.
For instructions on how to set up external databases for the CDH services, see Using an External Database for
Cloudera Manager and CDH.
When you deploy clusters with the Sentry service, enable Kerberos so that the clusters can share Sentry access policies. For instructions on how to set up the Sentry service in an Altus
Director deployment, see Enabling Sentry Service Authorization.
To deploy clusters in Altus Director to use Cloudera SDX, complete the following steps:


Create a cluster that uses external databases for the Hive metastore and Sentry.
On AWS, you can configure Altus Director to create an Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) instance and set up databases for the Hive metastore and Sentry data. On Azure, install a
database server and manually create databases for the Hive metastore and Sentry.
Define the databases in the Altus Director configuration file. Altus Director provides an example configuration file that includes the parameters that you would set up to enable you to use
Cloudera SDX to share data between clusters in the AWS.
For more information about using external databases for CDH services in Altus Director deployments, see Using an
External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH.
For more information about setting up a Hive metastore database using RDS, see the blog post, How To Set Up a Shared Amazon RDS as Your Hive Metastore.


Note the URI and administrator credentials for the Hive metastore and Sentry databases.
You must provide the URI and database credentials for the Hive metastore and Sentry databases when you set up the cluster in Altus services.
You can find the database URI on the Altus Director web UI. The Cluster Details page displays the database servers that are configured for the cluster
with a note about setting up SDX namespaces in Altus services. Click the Learn More link in the note to display the JDBC URLs for the Hive metastore and Sentry
databases.
The following image shows the database URIs on the details page of a cluster: 


Set up access to the object storage where you created the Hive metastore and Sentry databases.
The cluster must have read and write privileges to the object storage so that workloads can create and update data and metadata in the Hive metastore and Sentry databases.


Grant administrator privileges to the Sentry administrator group.
You can use Hue, Beeline, or impala-shell to grant Sentry permissions to the group that accesses the Hive metastore. You can create a Sentry role with the appropriate permissions and
assign the role to the group. Clusters that belong to the same group have the same access permissions to data and metadata in the Hive metastore.
For more information about setting up authorization with Sentry, see Authorization with Apache Sentry.






Creating Clusters with a Configured SDX Namespace in Altus Services

You can set up a configured SDX namespace in Altus services that points to the Hive metastore and Sentry databases that you set up in Altus Director. The configured SDX namespace allows
you to share cluster metadata and security policies between the Altus Director deployment and Altus Data Engineering and Altus Data Warehouse clusters.
To set up a cluster with a configured SDX namespace in Altus services, complete the following steps:


Identify the Hive metastore and Sentry databases that you want to use for the configured SDX namespace.
Get the connection URI and administrator credentials for the Hive metastore and Sentry databases that you set up for the cluster in Altus Director. See Step 2 in Deploying Clusters with Cloudera SDX in
Altus Director.


Create a configured SDX namespace in Altus.
When you create the configured SDX namespace, you must provide the connection URI and administrator credentials for the Hive metastore and Sentry databases.
For more information about creating a configured SDX namespace, see Creating an SDX Namespace in the Altus documentation.


Create a secure Altus Data Engineering or Data Warehouse cluster and set up the cluster to use the configured SDX namespace.
When you create the Altus cluster:

Specify the configured SDX namespace that uses the Hive metastore and Sentry databases for the clusters in Altus Director.
Specify an environment with the Secure Clusters option enabled.




Grant administrator privileges to the Sentry administrator group.
When you create a configured SDX namespace, Altus creates an Altus group for use as an administrator group in Sentry. Membership in the administrator group enables you to create roles
and manage Hive metastore and Sentry privileges.
For an Altus Data Engineering cluster, you can submit a Hive job to run the commands to grant privileges.
For an Altus Data Warehouse cluster, use the Query Editor to grant the privileges.
For more information, see Setting up a
Cluster with a Configured SDX Namespace in the Altus documentation.
If you created a Sentry role for the clusters deployed by Altus Director, you can assign the same Sentry role to the Altus groups that access the shared Hive metastore. See Step 4 in Deploying Clusters with
Cloudera SDX in Altus Director.






Categories: Altus | Cloud | Director | All Categories



Defining External Databases


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












