



Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director | 6.3.x | Cloudera Documentation












































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Altus Director 6.3.x | Other versions





Getting
StartedAmazon Web Services (AWS)








View All Categories

Introduction

Displaying Altus Director Documentation
Altus Director Interfaces


Release Notes

New Features and Changes
Known Issues
Fixed Issues
Unsupported Components and Features
Altus Director API


Requirements and Supported Versions
Getting Started

Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources
Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

Choosing an AMI


Installing Altus Director Server and Client on the EC2 Instance
Subscribing to Altus Director in the AWS Marketplace
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Amazon EC2
Adding an Altus Director Environment on AWS
Simple Setup: Creating a Cluster on AWS with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on AWS
Pausing a Cluster on AWS
Cleaning Up Your AWS Deployment
Using Custom DNS in AWS


Google Cloud Platform

Creating a Google Cloud Platform Project
Configuring Tools for Your Google Cloud Platform Account
Creating a Google Compute Engine VM Instance
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Google Compute Engine
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Google Compute Engine
Deploying Cloudera Manager and CDH on Google Compute Engine
Cleaning Up Your Google Cloud Platform Deployment


Microsoft Azure

Obtaining Credentials for Altus Director
Setting up Azure Resources
Setting Up Dynamic DNS on Azure
Setting Up MySQL or PostgreSQL
Setting Up a Virtual Machine for Altus Director Server
Installing Altus Director Server and Client on Azure
Configuring a SOCKS Proxy for Microsoft Azure
Allowing Access to VM Images
Adding an Altus Director Environment on Azure
Simple Setup: Creating an Azure Cluster with Default Settings
Advanced Setup: Installing Cloudera Manager and CDH on Azure
Terminating an Azure Deployment
Adding New VM Images, Custom VM Images, Regions, and Instances
Important Notes About Altus Director and Azure




Usage-Based Billing

Usage Bundles


Using Cloud Provider Regions

Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or Clouds
Using a New AWS Region in Altus Director


Configuring Storage for Altus Director

Using MySQL for Altus Director Server
Using MariaDB for Altus Director Server
Altus Director Database Encryption
Migrating the Altus Director Database


Configuring Storage for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Using an External Database for Cloudera Manager and CDH

Defining External Database Servers
Defining External Databases
Using the External Databases for Cloudera SDX


Using Amazon S3 Object Storage


Using EBS Volumes for Cloudera Manager and CDH
Security, Encryption, and High Availability

Enabling TLS with Altus Director
SSH Host Key Retrieval and Verification
Creating Kerberized Clusters With Altus Director
Enabling Sentry Service Authorization
Creating Highly Available Clusters With Altus Director
Encrypted Configuration Properties


Configuring and Running Altus Director

Auto-Repair for Failed or Terminated Instances
Deploying Java on Cluster Instances
Setting Altus Director Properties
Pausing Altus Director Instances
Configuring Altus Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory
Configuring Altus Director for a New AWS Instance Type
Configuring Altus Director to Use Custom Tag Names on AWS


Running Altus Director Behind a Proxy

Configuring Cloudera Manager to Use a Proxy
Configuring Other Software to Use a Proxy
Configuring Altus Director to Use a Proxy
Authenticating Proxies
HTTPS Proxies


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cloudera Manager Instances

Altus Director and Cloudera Manager Usage
Setting Cloudera Manager Configurations
Ports Used by Altus Director
SSH Keys in Altus Director
Creating AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Policies
Using Custom Repositories with Cloudera Manager and CDH
Cloudera Manager Health Information
Opening Cloudera Manager
Diagnostic Data Collection
User Management


Using Altus Director Server to Manage Cluster Instances

The Altus Director Configuration File
Submitting a Cluster Configuration File
Exporting a Configuration File
Deploying Clusters in an Existing Environment
Using Spot Instances
Using Automatic Instance Groups
Using Products outside CDH with Altus Director

Custom Service Descriptors
Using Kudu with CDH 5.12 or Earlier
Using Spark 2 with Altus Director
Using Cloudera Data Science Workbench with Altus Director
Using Third-Party Products with Altus Director


Creating and Modifying Clusters with the Altus Director Web UI
Altus Director Scripts
Terminating a Cluster


Using the Altus Director Client

Installing Altus Director Client
Provisioning a Cluster on AWS
Running Altus Director Client


Upgrading Altus Director
Troubleshooting
FAQ
Altus Director Glossary





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Launching an EC2 Instance for Altus Director

On AWS, Altus Director requires a dedicated Amazon EC2 instance. The simplest approach is to create this instance in the same VPC and subnet where you want Altus Director to create new
instances for Cloudera Manager and your CDH clusters.
Note: Alternatively, you can install Altus Director in a different region, on a different cloud provider, or a different network environment. For
information on these more complex setups, see Running Altus Director and Cloudera Manager in Different Regions or
Clouds.

To create the instance, follow these steps:

In the AWS Management Console, select EC2 from the Services navigation list box in the desired region.
Click the Launch Instance button in the Create Instance section of the EC2 dashboard.
Select the AMI for your Altus Director instance. Cloudera recommends that you choose from the Community AMIs list and the latest release of the desired supported distribution. See
Supported Software and Distributions.

Select Community AMIs in the left pane.
In the search box, type the desired operating system. For example, if you type rhel-7.3 HVM, the search results show the versions of RHEL v7.3 that
support HVM. Select the highest GA number to use the latest release of RHEL v7.3 supporting HVM.




Click Select for the AMI version you choose.

Note: For more information on finding AMIs, see Choosing an AMI.

Select the instance type for Altus Director. Cloudera recommends using c3.large or c4.large instances.
Click Next: Configure Instance Details.

Select the correct VPC and subnet.
The cluster launcher requires Internet access; from the Auto-assign Public IP list box, select Enable.
Use the default shutdown behavior, Stop.
Click the Protect against accidental termination checkbox.
(Optional) Click the IAM role drop-down list and select an IAM role.


Click Next: Add Storage. Altus Director requires a minimum of 8 GB.
Click Next: Add Tags. On the Add Tags page, click the Add Tag button. For the Name
key, enter a name for the instance in the Value field. Optionally, click Add Tag again to create an additional tags for the
instance (up to a maximum of 50 tags).




Click Next: Configure Security Group.
On the Configure Security Group page, create a new security group or add ports to an existing group. (If you have already created a security group
with the required ports for Altus Director, as described on the previous page Setting up the AWS Environment, you can skip
this step.)

Select either Create a new security group or Select an existing security group. If you create a new group, enter a
Security group name and Description. To edit an existing group, select the group you want to edit.
Click the Type drop-down list, and select a protocol type. Type the port number in the Port Range field.
For each additional port needed, click the Add Rule button. Then click the Type drop-down list, select a protocol
type, and type the port number in the Port Range field.
The following ports must be open for the Altus Director EC2 instance:




Type
Protocol
Port Range
Source




SSH (22)
TCP (6)
22
<your ip address>


ALL Traffic
ALL
ALL
security_group_id







Click Review and Launch. Scroll down to review the AMI details, instance type, and security group information, and then click Launch.
At the prompt for a key pair:

Select Choose an existing key pair and select the key pair you created in Preparing Your AWS EC2
Resources.
Click the check box to acknowledge that you have access to the private key.




Click Launch Instances.
After the instance is created, note its public and private IP addresses.

You are now ready to install Altus Director server and client on the EC2 instance.


Categories: AWS | Altus Director | Configuring | Getting Started | Installing | All Categories



Preparing Your AWS EC2 Resources


Choosing an AMI


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated July 28, 2019.












