Taxonomy of network architecturesCloudera Docs
Taxonomy of network architectures
This topic provides a high-level overview of each type of network architecture that CDP
  supports.
At a high level, there are several types of network architectures CDP supports. As
   can be expected, each type brings a unique trade-off among various aspects, such as ease of
   setup, security provided, workloads supported, and so on. This section only provides a high level
   overview of each type. The characteristics of each type are explained under appropriate sections
   in the rest of the document. The users must review the advantages and disadvantages of each of
   these taxonomies in detail before making a choice suitable to their needs.


Name
Description
Trade-offs



Publicly accessible networks
Deploys customer workloads to hosts with public IP addresses. Security groups
       must be used to restrict access only to corporate networks as needed.
Easy to set up for POCs. Low security levels.


Semi-private networks
Deploys customer workloads to private subnets, but exposes services to which
       data consumers need access over a load balancer with a public IP address. Security groups or
       allow-lists (of IP addresses or ranges) on load balancers must be used to restrict access to
       these public services only to corporate networks as needed.
This option is fairly easy to set up too, but it may not solve all the use
       cases of access (in semi private networks). The surface of exposure is reduced, and it
       is reasonably secure.


Fully private networks
Deploys customer workloads to private subnets and even services to which data consumers
       need access are only on private IPs. Requires connectivity to corporate networks to be
       provided using solutions like VPN gateways, and so on.
Complex to set up depending on prior experience of establishing such
       connectivity, primarily due to the way the customer has to solve the corporate network
       peering problem. But it is very secure.


Fully private outbound restricted networks
This is the same as fully private networks; Except, in addition,
       Cloudera provides a mechanism for users to configure an outbound proxy or firewall to monitor
       or restrict the communication outside their networks.
Most complex to set up, mainly considering the varied needs that data
       consumers would have to connect outside the VPC on an evolving basis. It is also the most
       secure for an enterprise.




Management Console to customer cloud network
This topic explains the possible ways in which CDP Control Plane can communicate with
    the compute infrastructure in the customer network, in the context of the Management
    Console.
As described previously, the CDP admin would typically use the CDP Management Console
      that runs in the CDP Control Plane to launch CDP environments with Data Lakes, FreeIPA, Data
      Hubs, and data services into their cloud accounts. In order to accomplish this, the CDP
      Control Plane and the compute infrastructure in the customer network (such as EC2 instances,
      EKS clusters) should be able to communicate with each other. Depending on the chosen network
      architecture, this communication can occur in the ways described below.
Publicly accessible networks
In this model of publicly accessible networks, the compute infrastructure must be
        reachable over the public internet from the Management Console. While this is fairly easy to
        set up, it is usually not preferred by enterprise customers, as it implies that the EC2
        nodes or EKS nodes are assigned public IP addresses. While the access control rules for
        these nodes can still be restricted to the IP addresses of the Management Console
        components, it is still considered insecure for each of the network architectures described
        earlier.

Semi-private networks
Publicly accessible networks are easy to set up for connectivity, both from
        the CDP Control Plane and the customer on-prem network, but have a large surface area of
        exposure as all compute infrastructure has public IP addresses. In contrast, fully
          private networks need special configuration to enable connectivity from the customer
        on-prem network, due to having no surface area of exposure to any of the compute
        infrastructure. While very secure, it is more complex to establish.
There is a third configuration supported by CDP, semi-private networks, that
        provides some trade-offs between these two options. In this configuration, the user deploys
        the worker nodes of the compute infrastructure on fully private networks as described
        above. However, the user chooses to expose UIs or APIs of the services fronting these worker
        nodes over a public network load balancer. By using this capability, the data consumers can
        access the UIs or APIs of the compute infrastructure through these load balancers. It is
        also possible to restrict the IP ranges from which such access is allowed using security
        groups.
While this option provides a trade-off between ease of setup and exposure levels, it
        may not satisfy all use cases related to communication between various endpoints. For
        example, some compute workloads involving Kafka or NiFi would not benefit from having a
        simple publicly exposed NLB. It is recommended that customers evaluate their use cases
        against the trade-off and choose an appropriately convenient and secure model of setup.

Fully private networks
In this model of fully private networks, the compute infrastructure is not
        assigned any public IP addresses. In this case, communication between the CDP Control Plane
        and compute infrastructure is established using a "tunnel" that originates from the customer
        network to the CDP Control Plane. All communication from the CDP Control Plane to the
        compute nodes is then passed through this tunnel. From experience, Cloudera has determined
        that this is the preferred model of communication for customers.
To elaborate on the tunneling approach, Cloudera uses a solution called Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM). At a high level,
        the solution uses two components, an agent (CCM agent) that runs on a VM provisioned
        in the customer network and a service (CCM service) that runs on the CDP Control
        Plane. The CCM agent, at start-up time, establishes a connection with the CCM
          service. This connection forms the tunnel. This tunnel is secured by asymmetric
        encryption. The private key is shared with the agent over cloud specific initialization
        mechanisms, such as a user-data script in AWS.
When any service on the CDP Control Plane wants to send a request to a service
        deployed on the customer environment (depicted in the below diagram as the logical
          flow), it physically sends a request to the CCM service running in the CDP
        Control Plane. The CCM agent and CCM service collaborate over the established
        tunnel to accept the request, forward it to the appropriate service, and send a response
        over the tunnel to be handed over the calling service on the CDP Control Plane.





Currently, all EKS clusters provisioned by various CDP data services are enabled
        with public and private cluster endpoints even under fully private network setup (see
          Amazon EKS cluster endpoint access control).
        The EKS public endpoint is needed to facilitate the interactions between CDP Control Plane
        and the EKS cluster while worker nodes and Kubernetes control plane interact over private
        API endpoints. There are plans to support private EKS endpoints in the future. When this
        occurs, the documentation will be updated to reflect the same.

Fully private outbound restricted networks
Fully private outbound restricted networks is a variant of the fully
          private network where customers would like to pass outbound traffic originating from
        their cloud account through a proxy or firewall and explicitly allow-list URLs that are
        allowed to pass through. CDP Public Cloud supports such configuration. If suvh network
        architecture is chosen, the customer must ensure the following:


Users configure a proxy for the environment via CDP, as documented in Use a non-transparent proxy with Cloudera Data
              Warehouse on AWS environments for Cloudera Data Warehouse and Using a non-transparent proxy for all other
            compute workloads and the Data Lake itself.


Compute resources (such as VMs used by Data Hubs and data services) can connect to
            the proxy or firewall via appropriate routing rules.


The proxy or firewall is set up to allow connections to all hosts, IP ranges,
            ports, and protocol types that are documented in Outbound network access destinations for
            AWS.


note
Given that fully private networks is the recommended option of connectivity
          in most cases, this document describes the architecture assuming a fully private
            network setup. 




Customer on-prem network to cloud network
After compute workload clusters are launched in the customer’s cloud network, data
  consumers such as data engineers, data scientists, and data analysts access services running in
  these CDP data services. Sometimes, CDP admins who set up and operate these clusters might need
  this access to diagnose any issues the clusters face.
Examples of these include:
Web UIs such as:
Hue: For running SQL queries in Hive tables
CML Workspaces: For accessing Cloudera Machine Learning projects, models,
       notebooks, and so on
Cloudera Manager: For Data Hubs and Data Lakes
Atlas and Ranger: For metadata, governance, and security in the Data
       Lake

JDBC endpoints: Customers can connect tools such as Tableau using a JDBC
     URL pointing to the Hive server.
SSH access: Data engineers might log in to nodes on the compute CDP data
     services to run data processing jobs using YARN, Spark, or other data pipeline tools.
Kube API access: CDP data services that run on Amazon EKS (such as Cloudera
     Data Warehouse and Cloudera Machine Learning) also provide admin access to Kubernetes for
     purposes of diagnosing issues.
API access: Customers can use APIs for accessing many of the services
     exposed via the web UIs for purposes of automation and integration with other tools,
     applications, or other workloads they have. For example, CML exposes the CML API v2 to
     work with Cloudera Machine Learning projects and other entities. See CML API v2.

These services are accessed by these consumers from within a corporate network inside
   a VPN. These services typically have endpoints that have a DNS name, the format of which is
   described more completely in the DNS section of this reference architecture documentation. These
   DNS names resolve to IP addresses assigned to the nodes, or load balancers fronting the ingest
   controllers of Kubernetes clusters. Note that these IP addresses are usually private IPs;
   Therefore, in order to be able to connect to these IPs from the on-premise network within a VPN,
   some special connectivity setup would be needed, typically accomplished using technologies like
   VPN peering, DirectConnect, transit gateways, and so on. While there are many options possible
   here, this document describes one concrete option of achieving this connectivity.

