CDP Public Cloud reference network architecture for AWSCloudera Docs
CDP Public Cloud reference network architecture for AWS
This topic includes a conceptual overview of the CDP Public Cloud network architecture
  for AWS, its use cases, and personas who should be using it
Overview
CDP Public Cloud allows customers to set up cloud Data Lakes and compute workloads in their
    cloud accounts on AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud. It maps a cloud account to a concept called the
     environment into which all compute workload clusters (Data Hubs) and data
     services (such as Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), Cloudera
    Machine Learning (CML), Cloudera Operational Database (COD), Cloudera DataFlow (CDF)) are
    launched. For these Data Lakes, compute workload clusters, and data services to function
    correctly, several elements of the cloud architecture need to be configured appropriately:
    access permissions, networking setup, cloud storage and so on. Broadly, these elements can be
    configured in one of two ways: 

CDP can set up these elements for the customerUsually, this model helps
      to set up a working environment quickly and try out CDP. However, many enterprise customers
      prefer or even mandate specific configurations of a cloud environment for Infosec or
      compliance reasons. Setting up elements such as networking and cloud storage requires prior
      approvals and they would generally not prefer, or even actively prevent, a third party vendor
      like Cloudera to set up these elements automatically.
CDP can work with pre-created elements provided by the customerIn this
      model, the flow for creating the cloud Data Lakes accepts pre-created configurations of the
      cloud environment and launches workloads within those boundaries. This model is clearly more
      aligned with enterprise requirements. However, it brings with it the risk that the
      configuration might not necessarily play well with CDP requirements. As a result, customers
      might face issues launching CDP workloads and the turnaround time to get to a working
      environment might be much longer and involve many tedious interactions between Cloudera and
      the customer cloud teams.

From our experience in working with several enterprise customers, the most
    complicated element of the cloud environment setup is the cloud network configuration. The
    purpose of this document is to clearly articulate the networking requirements needed for setting
    up a functional CDP Public Cloud environment into which the Data Lakes and compute workloads of
    different types can be launched. It attempts to establish the different points of access to
    these workloads and establishes how the given architecture helps to accomplish this access.
Along with this document, you can use the cloudera-deploy tool to automatically set up a model of this reference
    architecture, which can then be reviewed for security and compliance purposes.

Use cases
CDP Public Cloud allows customers to process data in the cloud storage under a
    secure and governed Data Lake using different types of compute workloads that are provisioned
    via Data Hub or data services. Typically the lifecycle of these workloads is as follows:

A CDP environment is set up by a CDP admin using their cloud account. This sets up
     a cloud Data Lake cluster and FreeIPA cluster with security and governance services and an
     identity provider for this environment. The CDP admin may need to work with a cloud
     administrator to create all the cloud provider resources (including networking resources) that
     are required by CDP.
Then one or more compute workload clusters can be launched, linked to the Data
     Lake. Each of these workload clusters typically serves a specific purpose such as data
     ingestion, analytics, machine learning and so on.
These compute workload clusters are accessed by data consumers like data
     engineers, analysts or scientists. This is the core purpose of using CDP on the public
     cloud.
These compute workload clusters can be long-running or ephemeral, depending on the
     customer needs.

There are two types of users for CDP who interact with the product for different
    purposes:

CDP admins - These persons are usually concerned with the launch and
     maintenance of the cloud environment, and the Data Lake, Data Hubs, FreeIPA, and CDP data
     services running inside the environment. They use a Management Console running in the Cloudera
     AWS account to perform these operations of managing the environment.
Data consumers - These are the data scientists, data analysts, and data
     engineers who use the Data Hubs and data services to process data. They mostly interact
     directly with the compute workloads (Data Hubs and data services) running in their cloud
     account. They could access these either from their corporate networks (typically through a VPN)
     or other cloud networks their corporate owns.

These two types of users and their interaction with CDP are represented in the following
    diagram:





