Send a diagnostic bundle to Cloudera SupportCloudera Docs
Send a diagnostic bundle to Cloudera Support
You can trigger diagnostic bundle collection for your CDP environment in order to send
  Data Lake, FreeIPA, and Data Hub logs to Cloudera Support for support case resolution. 
noteDiagnostic bundles can only be generated for Data Lake, FreeIPA, Data Hub, and Cloudera Data
   Warehouse (CDW). Additionally, there are separate interfaces for generating bundles for Cloudera
   Data Engineering (CDE) and Cloudera Machine Learning (CML). Other CDP services are not supported.
   A separate bundle is created for each cluster. To send a CML diagnostic bundle, follow the
   instructions in Download diagnostic bundles for an ML workspace instead of
   following the instructions below. To send a CDE diagnostic bundle, follow the instructions in
    Downloading a diagnostic bundle for Cloudera Data
    Engineering.
Required role: You need the EnvironmentAdmin or Owner role for the environment
   for which you would like to create a bundle. If you would like to include CDW diagnostics in the
   bundle, you also need the DWAdmin role.
Prerequisites


FreeIPA deployment time must be September 2020 or later.
The VMs from which diagnostic data is to be collected must be running. 
Salt minions must be started properly on the CM nodes.

Steps



Log in to the CDP web interface.


Navigate to the Management Console. 


Click Help in the bottom left corner and select Collect Diagnostic
      Data.



Click the Collect New Diagnostic Data button.
On the General Information page, provide the following:
Select the environment for which you would like to generate a diagnostic bundle. This is
      required.
Enter the related support case number. This is required. You can obtain the case number
      from the MyCloudera portal or from your email by checking support case notification
      emails.
Under Time Range, you can optionally specify a specific point in time (date and
      time) from which to start the collection. The cutoff date and time is automatically set to the
      time when you initiate the collection and it cannot be modified.



Click Next.
On the Selected Services page:
CDP automatically collects logs from all nodes of the Data Lake and FreeIPA
      clusters. By default diagnostics is collected from all nodes, but you can optionally limit it
      to one or more specific nodes. 
Under Data Hub clusters, you can optionally select to generate diagnostic
      bundles for Data Hub clusters. After adding a Data Hub, by default diagnostics is collected
      from all nodes, but you can optionally limit it to one or more specific nodes.
Under Data Warehouse clusters, you can optionally select to generate
      diagnostic bundles for Hive or Impala virtual warehouses created via CDW. 



Click Collect.
New entries appear on the page, allowing you to track the status of the log collection.
    Since a separate bundle is created for each service, there is one entry for each of the
    following: Data Lake, FreeIPA, one entry for each Data Hub, and one entry for each CDW
    warehouse. While the collection is in progress, the collection status is In progress:


Once the collection is complete, the status changes to Completed. This means that
    Cloudera Support can now access the diagnostic bundles:




Related informationDiagnostic bundle contentCDP CLI commands for generating a diagnostic bundle