Creating an Ozone-based external tableCloudera Docs
Creating an Ozone-based external table
You use the LOCATION clause in the CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE statement to create an
        external table having source data in Ozone.
In
            this task, you create an external table and load data from a .csv
            file that is stored in Ozone. You can use the LOCATION clause in the CREATE EXTERNAL
            TABLE statement to specify the location of the external table data. The metadata is
            stored in the Hive warehouse.


If you are running an insecure cluster, ensure that you set
                    up the necessary policies and permissions in Ranger to give user access to Hive
                    external files in Ozone.
You must have created a volume and bucket in Ozone. For
                    example:ozone sh volume create vol1
ozone sh bucket create vol1/bucket1
It is recommended that you set certain Hive configurations before querying Hive
                    tables in Ozone.



Create a text file named employee.csv that contains the
                    following records.

1,Andrew,45000,Technical Manager
2,Sam,35000,Proof Reader


Move the employee.csv file to a directory called
                        employee_hive in the Ozone filesystem.

Connect to the gateway node of the cluster and on the command line of the
                    cluster, launch Beeline to start the Hive shell.
beeline -u jdbc:hive2://myhiveserver.com:10000 -n hive
                    -p
The Hive 3 connection message appears, followed by the Hive prompt for
                    entering queries on the command line.

Create an external table schema definition that specifies the text format and
                    loads data from employee.csv in
                        ofs://ozone1/vol1/bucket1/employee_hive.

CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE IF NOT EXISTS employee(
  employee_ID INT,
  name STRING,
  salary DOUBLE,
  designation STRING)
  ROW FORMAT DELIMITED FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
  STORED AS TEXTFILE
  LOCATION 'ofs://ozone1/vol1/bucket1/employee_hive';


Verify that the Hive warehouse stores the employee.csv
                    records in the external table.
SELECT * FROM employee;


Related informationSetting up Ranger policies to access Hive files in OzoneCommands for managing Ozone volumes and bucketsRecommended Hive configurations when using OzoneParent topic: Apache Hive 3 tables