Cloudera Machine Learning overviewCloudera Docs
Cloudera Machine Learning overview
Machine learning has become one of the most critical capabilities for modern businesses
    to grow and stay competitive today. From automating internal processes to optimizing the design,
    creation, and marketing processes behind virtually every product consumed, ML models have
    permeated almost every aspect of our work and personal lives.
ML development is iterative and complex, made even harder because most ML tools aren’t built
      for the entire machine learning lifecycle. Cloudera Machine Learning on
      Cloudera Data Platform accelerates time-to-value by enabling data scientists to collaborate in
      a single unified platform that is all inclusive for powering any AI use case. Purpose-built
      for agile experimentation and production ML workflows, Cloudera Machine Learning manages everything from data preparation to MLOps,
      to predictive reporting. Solve mission critical ML challenges along the entire lifecycle with
      greater speed and agility to discover opportunities which can mean the difference for your
      business.
Each ML workspace enables teams of data scientists to develop, test, train, and ultimately
      deploy machine learning models for building predictive applications all on the data under
      management within the enterprise data cloud. ML workspaces support fully-containerized
      execution of Python, R, Scala, and Spark workloads through flexible and extensible engines. 





AI applications
Analytical Applications provide a place to host long running applications within a CML
    project.
While CML offers a place for Data Scientists to perform advanced analytics and models into
      production, Analytical Applications provides a place to host long running applications within
      a CML project. This opens up a larger group of users to the insights discovered in CML.
      Applications can be built with a variety of frameworks like Flask and Streamlit. They run
      within their own isolated compute instance which keeps them from timing out and they take
      advantage of ML Runtimes. Applications are accessible to users through the web. Applications
      can be for a variety of use cases like hosting interactive data visualizations or providing a
      UI frontend for a deployed mode in CML. 


Exploratory Data Science
CML enables data practitioners to discover, query, and easily visualize their data sets
    all within a single user interface.
The beginning of every data science project begins with finding and understanding the data
      you need. CML brings all the tools you need for exploratory data analysis together in a single
      UI so that data practitioners don't have to jump between applications, and IT doesn't have to
      support multiple tools. CML provides users with a view of available data assets that they can
      connect to, a sql editor to query those data sources, and an easy-to-use drag-and-drop
      visualization tool to understand your data and communicate insights.


ML Ops
CML enables users to deploy machine learning and other models into
    production.
CML enables users to deploy machine learning and other models into production, either as a
      batch process through the Jobs functionality, or as near-real-time REST APIs using the Models
      functionality. In addition, CML provides a number of features to help maintain, monitor and
      govern these models in production. The Model Governance feature ensures that every deployed
      Model is tracked in the Cloudera Data Catalog, and allows the user to specify which data
      tables were used to train the model in order to provide model-data lineage. Deployed Models
      have a built-in dashboard for monitoring technical metrics relating to deployed CML Models,
      such as request throughput, latency, and resource consumption. Additionally, users can track
      arbitrary business metrics relating to each inference event, and match the results with
      delayed metrics from a data warehouse or other source using an automatically generated UUID.
      By analyzing these metrics, the user can assess the model for aggregated metrics such as
      accuracy on an ongoing basis.


Core capabilities
This section details the core capabilities for Cloudera Machine Learning.
Cloudera Machine Learning covers the end-to-end machine learning workflow,
      enabling fully isolated and containerized workloads - including Python, R, and
      Spark-on-Kubernetes - for scale-out data engineering and machine learning with seamless
      distributed dependency management. 


Sessions enable Data Scientists to directly leverage the CPU, memory,
          and GPU compute available across the workspace, while also being directly connected to the
          data in the data lake.


Experiments enable Data Scientists to run multiple variations of model
          training workloads, tracking the results of each Experiment in order to train the best
          possible Model.


Models can be deployed in a matter of clicks, removing any roadblocks to
          production. They are served as REST endpoints in a high availability manner, with
          automated lineage building and metric tracking for MLOps purposes.


Jobs can be used to orchestrate an entire end-to-end automated pipeline,
          including monitoring for model drift and automatically kicking off model re-training and
          re-deployment as needed. 


Applications deliver interactive experiences for business users in a
          matter of clicks. Frameworks such as Flask and Shiny can be used in development of these
          Applications, while Cloudera Data Visualization is also available as a point-and-click
          interface for building these experiences.







Cloudera Machine Learning benefits
This section details the Cloudera Machine Learning benefits for each type of
    user.
Cloudera Machine Learning is built for the agility and power of cloud
      computing, but is not limited to any one provider or data source. It is a comprehensive
      platform to collaboratively build and deploy machine learning capabilities at scale. 
Cloudera Machine Learning provides benefits for each type of user.
Data Scientists


Enable DS teams to collaborate and speed model development and delivery with
          transparent, secure, and governed workflows


Expand AI use cases with automated ML pipelines and an integrated and complete
          production ML toolkit 


Empower faster decision making and trust with end-to-end visibility and
          auditability of data, processes, models, and dashboards


IT


Increase DS productivity with visibility, security, and governance of the
          complete ML lifecycle 


Eliminate silos, blindspots, and the need to move/duplicate data with a fully
          integrated platform across the data lifecycle. 


Accelerate AI with self-service access and containerized ML workspaces that
          remove the heavy lifting and get models to production faster 


Business Users


Access interactive Applications built and deployed by DS teams.


Be empowered with predictive insights to more intelligently make business
          decisions.




Key differences between Cloudera Machine Learning (Public Cloud) and Cloudera Data Science
    Workbench
This topic highlights some key differences between Cloudera Data Science Workbench and
    its cloud-native counterpart, Cloudera Machine Learning. 
How is Cloudera Machine Learning (CML) related to Cloudera Data Science
        Workbench (CDSW)?
CML expands the end-to-end workflow of Cloudera Data Science
      Workbench (CDSW) with cloud-native benefits like rapid provisioning,
      elastic autoscaling, distributed dependency isolation, and distributed GPU
      training.
It can run its own native distributed computing workloads without requiring a
      separate CDH cluster for scale-out compute. It is designed to run on CDP in existing
      Kubernetes environments, reducing operational costs for some customers while delivering
      multi-cloud portability. On Public Cloud, managed cloud Kubernetes services include EKS, AKS,
      or GKE, and on Private Cloud, they include Red Hat OpenShift or ECS (Embedded Container
      Service).
Both products help data engineers and data science teams be more
      productive on shared data and compute, with strong security and
      governance. They share extensive code.
There is one primary difference:

CDSW extends an existing CDH cluster, by running on
            gateway nodes and pushing distributed compute workloads to the
            cluster. CDSW requires and supports a single CDH cluster for its
            distributed compute, including Apache Spark.


In contrast, CML is self-contained and manages its own
            distributed compute, natively running workloads - including but not
            limited to Apache Spark - in containers on Kubernetes.
Note: It can still connect to an existing cluster to
            leverage its distributed compute, data, or metadata (SDX).




