Update from 1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 (OCP)Cloudera Docs
Update from 1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 (OCP) 
You can update your existing CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 without performing an uninstall. After the update is complete, you
        may need to upgrade the underlying OpenShift Container Platform. See the Software Support Matrix for OpenShift for more
        information about supported OCP versions.

If you are upgrading the OCP version to 4.10.x or higher,
                while the CDE service is enabled, it fails to launch the Jobs
                page in the old CDE virtual cluster. Hence, you must back up CDE jobs in the CDE
                virtual cluster, and then delete the CDE service and CDE virtual cluster. Restore it
                after the upgrade. For more information about backup and restore CDE jobs, see  Backing up and restoring CDE jobs. 



Review the Software Support Matrix for OpenShift. 
As of CDP Private Cloud Data Services
                    1.5.1, external Control Plane metadata databases are no longer supported. If you
                    are upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Data Services
                    1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, and you were previously using an external Control Plane
                    database, you must run the following psql commands to create
                    the required databases. You should also ensure that the two new databases are
                    owned by the common database users known by the control plane.
CREATE DATABASE db-cadence;
CREATE DATABASE db-cadence-visibility;

If you are upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Data Services
                    1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, and you were previously using an external Control Plane
                    database, you must regenerate the DB certificate with SAN before upgrading to
                        CDP Private Cloud Data Services
                    1.5.1. For more information, see Pre-upgrade - Regenerate external DB cert as SAN (if applicable).
Make a backup of the OpenShift routes before upgrading to 1.5.1. 

Ensure that you have the following before you update:


Ensure that this kubeconfig has permissions to create Kubernetes
                        namespaces.


Back up all the external databases used by CDP
            Private Cloud Data Services.


One or more environments registered in CDP
            Private Cloud Data Services.


One of the registered environment has one or
            more Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) or Cloudera Machine Learning
            (CML) experience workspaces.


Kubeconfig file for the OCP cluster


Access to the Cloudera Private Cloud repositories
                        (archive.cloudera.com)


Administrator access to OCP and Privileged access to your external
                        Vault




In Cloudera Manager, navigate to CDP Private Cloud Data Services
          and click . Click
            Update.






On the Getting Started page, you can select the Install
                    method - Air Gapped or Internet
                    and proceed.

Internet install method





Air Gapped install method



Click Continue.


On the Collect Information page, upload a
                        Kubernetes configuration (kubeconfig) file from your
                    existing environment. You can obtain this file from your OpenShift Container
                    Platform administrator. Click Continue.






On the Update Progress page, you can see the progress of
                    your update. Click Continue.




important
During the "Upgrade Control Plane" step of the CDP upgrade
              process, the grafana pod can get stuck in the terminating sate.
              This usually means that all other Control Plane pods are in the
              running state, but for Grafana, there is one pod that is in
              running state and there is one pod that is stuck in terminating
              state. The terminating pod has the following
              message:containers with incomplete status: [multilog-init grafana-sc-datasources]If
              you search for the terminating pod id in the kubelet log on the
              host, the following error message can be found:
              E0531 2209 kuberuntime_sandbox.go:70] CreatePodSandbox for pod "<pod id>" failed: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = error reading container (probably exited) json message: EOF
If there is a granfa pod stuck in terminating state, run the
              following command on the ECS Server
              host:<grafana-pod-id> --force --grace-period=0



After the update is complete, the Summary page appears.
                    You can now Launch CDP Private Cloud from here.






Or you can navigate to the CDP Private Cloud Data
                            Services page and click Open CDP Private Cloud
                            Data Services.

CDP Private Cloud Data Services opens up in a new
                    window.

After the update is complete, delete the old CDE service and the underlying
                    virtual cluters. You may also need to upgrade the underlying OpenShift Container
                    Platform. See the Software Support Matrix for OpenShift
                    for more information about supported OCP versions.


Pre-upgrade - Preparing for CDP Private Cloud Data Services update for CDEUpgrading the OpenShift Container Platform (OCP) version while CDE service is         enabled, can cause database corruption in the embedded MySQL database used for CDE. Follow         the below steps before starting the OCP version upgrade.Pre-upgrade - Upgrading CDE Service with Endpoint StabilityYou can seamlessly upgrade an old Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service to a new         version with endpoint stability. This enables you to access the CDE service of the new         version with the previous endpoint. Thus, you can use the existing endpoints without         changing configurations at the application level.Pre-upgrade - Regenerate external DB cert as SAN (if applicable)If you are upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.4.1         or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, and you were previously using an external Control Plane metadata         database, you must regenerate the DB certificate with SAN before upgrading to CDP Private         Cloud Data Services 1.5.1.OCP upgrade steps for CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.5.1Updating CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1         on OCP requires you to upgrade earlier OCP versions to a version supported by CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.5.1. This process involves incremental         OCP version upgrades in conjunction with CDP Private Cloud Data Services         updates and validations. Updating CDP Private Cloud Data ServicesYou can update your existing CDP Private Cloud Data Services         1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 without performing an uninstall. After the update is complete, you         may need to upgrade the underlying OpenShift Container Platform. See the Software Support Matrix for OpenShift for more         information about supported OCP versions.Completing post OCP update tasksIf you are using CDE, after you complete the OpenShift Container Platform (OCP)         upgrade, ensure that the steps done before OCP upgrade are reverted.Post-upgrade - Ozone Gateway validationAfter upgrading CDP Private Cloud Data Services and you are using CDE, you must         validate if Ozone Gateway is working as expected. This procedure applies for both 1.4.1 to         1.5.1 and 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 upgrades.. You can run the following commands to get the types of         logs that are available with the job run:Recovering a corrupted CDE Embedded databaseIn case you did not stop the jobs and scale down CDE embedded databases but completed         the upgrade of OpenShift Container Platform (OCP), there is a chance of the CDE embedded         database getting corrupted which causes the virtual clusters to become inaccessible. Follow         the below steps to recover the CDE embedded database.Post-upgrade - Restoring CDE Service for Endpoint StabilityAfter you take backup of the CDE service and upgrade your CDP platform, you can         restore the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service with same endpoints. Post-upgrade tasks for Cloudera Data WarehousePost-upgrade steps for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) vary depending on whether you are   upgrading from 1.4.1 or 1.5.0. Perform the steps that are applicable to you.