Updating CDP Private Cloud Data ServicesCloudera Docs
Updating CDP Private Cloud Data Services
You can update your existing CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 without performing an uninstall. After the update is complete, you
        may need to upgrade the underlying OpenShift Container Platform. See the Software Support Matrix for OpenShift for more
        information about supported OCP versions.



Review the Software Support Matrix for
                            OpenShift. 

As of CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.5.1, external metadata databases are no longer supported. If you
                            are upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, and you were previously using an external
                            Control Plane database, you must run the following psql
                            commands to create the required databases. You should also ensure that
                            the two new databases are owned by the common database users known by
                            the control plane.

CREATE DATABASE db-cadence;
CREATE DATABASE db-cadence-visibility;


If you are upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, and you were previously using an external
                        Control Plane database, you must regenerate the DB certificate with SAN
                        before upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.5.1.
Make a backup of the OpenShift routes before upgrading to 1.5.1. 


Ensure that you have the following before you update:


Ensure that the kubeconfig has permissions to create Kubernetes
                        namespaces.


Back up all of the external databases used by CDP Private Cloud
                        Data Services.


One or more environments registered in CDP Private Cloud Data
                        Services.


One of the registered environment has one or more Cloudera Data
                        Warehouse (CDW) or Cloudera Machine Learning (CML) experience
                        workspaces.


A Kubeconfig file for the OCP cluster.


Access to the Cloudera Private Cloud repositories
                        (archive.cloudera.com).


Administrator access to OCP and Privileged access to your external
                        Vault.




In Cloudera Manager, navigate to CDP Private Cloud Data Services
          and click . Click
            Update.






On the Getting Started page, you can select the Install
                    method - Air Gapped or Internet
                    and proceed.

Internet install method





Air Gapped install method



Click Continue.


On the Collect Information page, upload a
                        Kubernetes configuration (kubeconfig) file from your
                    existing environment. You can obtain this file from your OpenShift Container
                    Platform administrator. Click Continue.






On the Update Progress page, you can see the progress of
                    your update. Click Continue.




important
During the "Upgrade Control Plane" step of the CDP upgrade
              process, the grafana pod can get stuck in the terminating sate.
              This usually means that all other Control Plane pods are in the
              running state, but for grafana, there is one pod that is in
              running state and there is one pod that is stuck in terminating
              state. The terminating pod has the following
              message:containers with incomplete status: [multilog-init grafana-sc-datasources]If
              you search for the terminating pod id in the kubelet log on the
              host, the following error message can be found:
              E0531 2209 kuberuntime_sandbox.go:70] CreatePodSandbox for pod "<pod id>" failed: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = error reading container (probably exited) json message: EOF
If there is a granfa pod stuck in terminating state, run the
              following command on the ECS Server
              host:<grafana-pod-id> --force --grace-period=0



After the update is complete, the Summary page appears.
                    You can now Launch CDP Private Cloud from here.



Or you can navigate to the CDP Private Cloud Data Services page and click
                            Open CDP Private Cloud Data Services.
CDP Private Cloud Data Services opens up in a new
                    window.



After upgrade, the Cloudera Manager admin role may be missing the Host
                    Administrators privilege in an upgraded cluster. The cluster administrator
                    should run the following command to manually add this privilege to the
                    role.ipa role-add-privilege <cmadminrole> --privileges="Host Administrators"
If you need to restore the control plane on a CDP Private Cloud Data Services1.5.1 OpenShift cluster using a 1.5.0 backup, contact Cloudera Customer
                    Support.




Parent topic: Update from 1.4.1 or 1.5.0 to 1.5.1 (OCP)