Migrating Hive tables to Iceberg tablesCloudera Docs
Migrating Hive tables to Iceberg tables
Using Iceberg tables facilitates multi-cloud open lakehouse implementations. You can
  move Iceberg-based workloads in Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) across deployment environments on AWS
  and Azure. You can migrate existing external Hive tables from Hive to Iceberg in Cloudera Data
  Warehouse (CDW) or from Spark to Iceberg in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE).
Cloudera has chosen Apache Iceberg as the foundation for an open lakehouse in CDP. Any compute engine can insert,
   update, and delete data into Iceberg tables. Any compute engine can read Iceberg tables.
The following CDP data services support Iceberg for performing multi-function analytics for the
   open lakehouse with Cloudera SDX shared security and governance: 
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW): Batch ETL, SQL and BI analytic workloads, row-level database
     operations like updates, deletes, and merge
Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE): Batch ETL, row-level database operations, table
     maintenance
Cloudera Machine Learning (CML): Data Science through Python, R, and other languages, ML
     model training and inferencing, table maintenance
Cloudera Data Flow (CDF): Nifi streaming ingestion
Cloudera Stream Processing (CSP): Unified streaming ingestion with SQL


Use cases for migrating to IcebergA key use case for migrating Hive tables to Iceberg is the elimination of data     segmentation, or data silos, and duplication. These silos facilitate the tedious preparation,     curation, cleansing, and moving of data before you can get any meaningful insights from your     data. This use case and others are summarized.In-place migration from HiveIf you are looking for an efficient way to Hive migrate Hive tables to Iceberg, you came   to the right place. An overview of using Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) prepares you to convert   Apache Hive external tables to Apache Iceberg with no downtime. You learn the advantages of moving   Hive tables to Iceberg for implementing an open lakehouse. In-place migration from SparkIn Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), you can use Spark SQL to migrate Hive tables to   Iceberg. You can convert Apache Hive external tables to Apache Iceberg with no downtime. Cloudera   recommends moving Hive tables to Iceberg for implementing an open lakehouse. Best practices for Iceberg in CDPBased on large scale TPC-DS and performance testing and real-world experiences, Cloudera   recommends several best practices when using Iceberg.