In-place migration from SparkCloudera Docs
In-place migration from Spark
In Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), you can use Spark SQL to migrate Hive tables to
  Iceberg. You can convert Apache Hive external tables to Apache Iceberg with no downtime. Cloudera
  recommends moving Hive tables to Iceberg for implementing an open lakehouse. 
You use one of the following, similar procedures to import and migrate Hive tables to
    Iceberg:
Importing and migrating Iceberg table in Spark 3A backup table is created, but does not involve the time-consuming movement the physical location of the table on the object store.
Importing and migrating Iceberg table format v2The Iceberg merge on read operation is used.

By default, when you migrate a Hive external table to an Iceberg v2 table, the file is not
   rewritten. A write occurs to a new file. A read merges changes into the original file. The
   default merge on read tends to speed up the write and slow down the read. You can configure
   several other types of migration behavior if the default merge on read does not suit your use
   case.
For more information about using Iceberg in CDE, see Using Apache Iceberg in Cloudera Data
   Engineering.

PrerequisitesLearn about the supported versions for Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), Spark, and Data     Lake to use with Apache Iceberg CDE.Importing and migrating Iceberg table in Spark 3Importing or migrating tables are supported only on existing external Hive tables. When     you import a table to Iceberg, the source and destination remain intact and independent. When     you migrate a table, the existing Hive table is converted into an Iceberg table. You can use     Spark SQL to import or migrate a Hive table to Iceberg.Importing and migrating Iceberg table format v2Importing or migrating Hive tables Iceberg table formats v2 are supported only on     existing external Hive tables. When you import a table to Iceberg, the source and destination     remain intact and independent. When you migrate a table, the existing Hive table is converted     into an Iceberg table. You can use Spark SQL to import or migrate a Hive table to     Iceberg.Parent topic: Migrating Hive tables to Iceberg tables