Migrating from Sentry to RangerCloudera Docs
Migrating from Sentry to Ranger
 Before deciding to migrate from Sentry to Ranger, read the Sentry to Ranger Concise
  Guide and the topics in this guide. 
The Sentry to Ranger Concise Guide blog post describes fundamental
   differences between Sentry and Ranger, compares the two products, and provides additional
   information that helps prepare you for your migration. 
Read the topics in this section for information about preparing to migrate Sentry permssions to
   Ranger policies and topics that describe how to migrate once you are ready.
Sentry (CDH) had an object ownership feature, which added ownership permissions for all the
   databases/tables created. This feature was added in CDH-5.16 and supported through CDH-6.2.
   After enabling the ownership feature Sentry would grant owner permission for all the
   databases/tables created after enablment. 
 Ranger default policies for Hadoop Sql

Policy Name
User 
Permissions


all - database, table, column


{OWNER}


all permissions



all - database, table

{OWNER}

all permissions



all - database, udf

{OWNER}

all permissions



all - database

{OWNER}

all permissions


After migration from Sentry:
All the users who have {OWNER} permissions on objects, such as databases/tables, will
      get All the permissions from above default Ranger policies.
Above Ranger policies will be applicable only to objects for whom they are the
      owner.
Even if Sentry does not have owner mapping, in other words, the ownership feature is
      disabled, this scenario holds true.

note If you are using MySQL as the Ranger database and seeing the
    following error while migrating from Sentry to Ranger:
Error:
com.mysql.cj.jdbc.exceptions.MySQLTransactionRollbackException: Lock wait timeout exceeded; try restarting transaction

Resolution


In Cloudera Manager > Configuration > Search, type core-site.xml, then click
          Search.
In CORE_SETTINGS-1 (Service-Wide), in
         Name, type ranger.client.pool.size.
In Value, type 1.
Click Save Changes (CTRL+S).
On the Cluster > Actions, click Restart.






