Authenticating Hue users with SAMLCloudera Docs
Authenticating Hue users with SAML
Hue supports SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language) for Single Sign-on
    (SSO) authentication.
The SAML 2.0 Web Browser SSO profile has three components: 
User Agent - Browser that represents you, the user, seeking resources.
Service Provider (SP) - Service (Hue) that sends authentication requests to SAML. 
Identity Provider (IdP) - SAML service that authenticates users. 
When a user requests access to an application, the Service Provider (Hue) sends an
      authentication request from the User Agent (browser) to the identity provider. The identity
      provider authenticates the user, sends a response, and redirects the browser back to Hue as
      shown in the following diagram:
Figure 1. SAML SSO protocol flow in a web browser


The Service Provider (Hue) and the identity provider use a metadata
     file to confirm each other's identity. Hue stores metadata from the SAML
     server, and the identity provider stores metadata from the Hue server.

Configuring SAML authentication on managed clustersTo configure Hue for SAML authentication on managed clusters, you must add the       SAML authentication properties to the Hue Service Advanced Configuration Snippet         (Safety Valve) for hue_safety_valve.ini in Cloudera Manager.Manually configuring SAML authenticationTo manually configure Hue for SAML authentication on unmanaged clusters, you must add     GCC Python libraries and install xmlsec1 tools on all the hosts in your     cluster.     Integrating your identity provider's SAML server with HueAfter Hue is configured for SAML authentication and restarted, copy the metadata that     is generated by the Hue server and send it to your identity provider so they can configure the     SAML server.SAML propertiesYou can set SAML properties in the hue.ini file       for unmanaged clusters. A subset of them can be set in the Hue Service Advanced         Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for hue_safety_valve.ini for managed       clusters.Troubleshooting SAML authenticationBefore troubleshooting your SAML authentication configuration in Hue, enable DEBUG for     the Hue Django logs that are located in /var/log/hue. In the Hue Web UI, go to the Home page, select     Server Logs, and check Force Debug Level. For     managed clusters, you can use Cloudera Manager to enable DEBUG by navigating to the     Hue service, selecting the Configuration tab,     check Enable Django Debug mode, click Save       Changes, and then Restart.Parent topic: User authentication in Hue