Understanding Hue users and groupsCloudera Docs
Understanding Hue users and groups
There are two types of users in Hue - superusers and general users referred to as users,
  each with specific privileges. These users can be a part of certain groups. Groups enable you to
  control which Hue applications and features your users can view and access when they log into
  Hue.
On a non-secure CDP cluster, the first user logging into Hue after the initial installation
   becomes the first superuser. Superusers have the permissions to perform the following
   administrative functions:
Add and delete users
Add and delete groups
Assign permissions to groups
Change a user into a superuser
Import users and groups from an LDAP server

If a user is part of the superuser LDAP group in Hue, then that user is also a part of the
   group of superusers in Hue.
Users can only change their name, e-mail address, and password. They can log in to Hue and run
   Hue applications, subject to the permissions provided by the Hue groups to which they belong.
   This is different from how CDP perceives the Hue application when you submit a Hive or an Impala
   query from the Hue user interface (UI). Hue is a server between the users and the CDP services.
   Hue is considered as a single ‘hue’ user by the other services in the CDP cluster.
For example, when a user ‘bob’ submits a query from Hue, Hue also sends the username of this
   user to the corresponding service in CDP. The HIVE_ON_TEZ service in CDP considers ‘bob’ as the
   owner of the query and not ‘hue’. This is illustrated in the following graphic:


Hue is a gateway to CDP cluster services and both have separate permissions. A Hue superuser is
   not granted access to HDFS, Hive, and other CDP cluster services. Apache Ranger governs access to
   the CDP cluster services.
noteGroups in Hue are different from groups in Ranger.
Hue user permissions are at the application level only. For example, a Hue superuser can filter
   Hue user access to a CDP service but cannot authorize the use of its features. Users who log on
   to the Hue UI must have permission to use Hue and to each CDP service accessible within Hue.

Parent topic: User management in Hue