Creating a truststore file in PEM formatCloudera Docs
Creating a truststore file in PEM format
You must create the Hue Truststore by consolidating certificates of all SSL-enabled
    servers (or a single CA Certificate chain) that Hue communicates with into one file. This
    generally includes certificates of all the Oozie, HDFS, MapReduce, and YARN daemons, and any
    other SSL-enabled services. 

Server certificates are stored in Java KeyStore (JKS) format. The Hue Truststore must be in
        the Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM) format whereas other services use the JKS format by default.
        To create the Hue truststore, extract each certificate from Hadoop's Java Keystore with the
        Java keytool, convert the certificate to PEM format with the OpenSSL.org
          openssl tool, and then add it to the Hue truststore:


Extract the certificate from the keystore of each TLS/SSL-enabled server with
                  which Hue communicates. For example, if you have
                  hadoop-server.keystore that contains a server certificate,
                  foo-1.example.com with a password of
                  example123, you would use the following keytool
                  command:

keytool -exportcert -keystore hadoop-server.keystore -alias foo-1.example.com -storepass example123 -file foo-1.cert


Convert each certificate into a PEM file. Here is what the openssl
              tool command looks like for the foo-1.cert file that was extracted in
              Step 1:

openssl x509 -inform der -in foo-1.cert > foo-1.pem


Concatenate all the PEM certificates you extracted and converted from the server
          truststore into one PEM file:

cat foo-1.pem foo-2.pem foo-n.pem ... > hue_truststore.pem

Concatenate the certificate files in the following order: SSL certificate followed by
          intermediate certificate, followed by the root CA certificate.

importantEnsure the final PEM truststore is deployed in a location that is
            accessible by the Hue service.


Log in to Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.

Go to Clusters > Hue > Configuration and add the following line in the Hue Service Environment
            Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) field:

​REQUESTS_CA_BUNDLE=[***PATH-TO-HUETRUST.PEM-FIL E***]


Click Save Changes.

Restart the Hue service.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL for Hue