Creating a Hue userCloudera Docs
Creating a Hue user
You can create new Hue users and superusers from the Hue web UI and assign them to
        groups so that they can view and access Hue as per the permissions granted to them. 

noteYou can create a username for Hue 150 characters long.

Per user home directories are created on HDFS when you
            create a new user in Hue, which the user can use to store and retrieve files using the
            Hue File Browser. To prevent unauthorized access by other Hue users, add the following
            lines in Cloudera Manager > Clusters > Hue > Configuration > Hue Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                    hue_safety_valve.ini:[useradmin]
home_dir_permissions=0700
use_home_dir_permissions=trueSet
                    use_home_dir_permissions to false to use the
                HDFS umask.

Sign in to the Hue UI as a superuser.

From the left assist panel, point your cursor to the user profile icon and
                    click Manage Users.





The User Admin page is displayed.

On the User Admin page, click Add
                        User.
The Create user page is displayed.

Enter the username and password for the user that you are adding on the
                        Credentials tab.
To create a separate Hue home directory for the user, select the
                        Create home directory option.
Click Next.

On the Profile and Group tab, create a profile for the
                    user by entering the details such as name and email address.
At this point, if you have already created a group(s) that you want to assign
                    to the user, then select it from the list displayed in the
                        Groups field.
A user can be a part of more than one group.
Click Next.

(Optional) On the Advanced tab, select the
                        Superuser status option to make this user a superuser
                    and click Add user.
The new user is displayed on the Users page.


Related informationConfiguring file and directory permissions for HueParent topic: User management in Hue