Provision an operational database clusterCloudera Docs
Provision an operational database cluster
You can provision an operational database cluster that has the default cluster
        definition or you can define the custom number of worker nodes that you need.
To provision a cluster:

From the Cloudera Management Console, click
                    Environments. 

Search for your environment using the search box, and click on the environment
                    name. Your environment clusters page appears.

Click Create Data Hub.
The Provision Data Hub page appears.

From the Selected Environment list, ensure that you have
                    selected the environment in which you want to create the cluster. The templates
                    that you see later will depend on the environment that you choose. For example,
                    only the AWS templates are displayed if you select an AWS environment. 

Choose the way you want to provision your cluster:

Cluster Definition: Select the Cluster Definition
                        option to create your cluster quickly by using one of the prescriptive
                        cluster definitions included by default or one of your previously created
                        custom cluster definitions.
Custom: Select the Custom option to install
                        selected services as part of the cluster. The list of services is determined
                        by the selected Cluster Template.


If you selected Cluster Definition: 


From the Cluster Definition list, select the
                                Operational Database with SQL template.


In the Cluster Name field, provide a uniquely
                            identifiable cluster name.


or

If you selected Custom:


From the Platform Version list, select the
                            Cloudera Runtime version of your choice.


From the Cluster Template list, select a cluster
                            template of your choice.


Under General Settings, in the
                                Cluster Name field, provide a uniquely
                            identifiable cluster name.



Under Tags, click Add to add tags
                    to help you find your cluster-related resources in your cloud provider
                    account.

Select Advanced Options to configure various option such
                    as Image Catalog, Network And Availability, Hardware And Storage, Cloud Storage,
                    and Cluster Extensions.
Optional: 
Set the number of RegionServers by editing the Instance
                        Count in Advanced Options  > Hardware And Storage. 

If you want to change the Instance Type of worker nodes
                    to suit your requirements using Advanced Options  > Hardware And Storage.

noteThe DataNodes and RegionServers are co-located.


Click Provision Cluster. 
After the cluster is successfully provisioned, you can access the
                    Cloudera Manager user interface from the Cluster Information
                    section.


Parent topic: Creating an operational database cluster