Before you create an operational database clusterCloudera Docs
Before you create an operational database cluster
You must create an environment, register the environment, and set your user's
        password before you can create an operational database cluster. 
Before you create an Operational Database cluster as a Data Hub cluster in CDP, you must
            ensure that you have completed the following steps:
Set up user access and authorization
To provide access to resources such as environments and clusters, you must add users and
            groups and assign roles and resources to them. Each environment has an IPA instance
            which acts as a centralized user database. To access non-SSO interfaces, each user must
            set an IPA password.
For more information, see Managing user access and authorization.
Create an environment on AWS or Azure
You require the following to create an environment on AWS or Azure for use with CDP:

Cloud credential to configure access from CDP to your cloud provider account 
SSH key-pair in CDP. You can generate an access key from the Cloudera Management
                Console using User Management 
Knowledge of your region and network information

For more information, see Environment prerequisites on AWS.
Register your environment in CDP
You must register an environment before you can create a cluster on that environment. The
            environment will retain all of this information for any clusters created within it and
            will create a FreeIPA cluster for centralized user management.
You can register an environment from the Cloudera Management Console using
                Environments > Register Environment.
For more information, see Register an AWS environment or Register an
                Azure environment.
noteYour OpDB cluster may fail to initialize if you are reusing a cloud storage location
            that was used by an older OpDB Data Hub cluster. If you want to reuse a cloud storage
            location, you should first stop HBase using Cloudera Manager before deleting an OpDB
            Data Hub cluster. For instructions to stop HBase, see Stop HBase. If these steps are not followed,
            the new OpDB Data Hub cluster may start with regions that are not correctly assigned
            because of the state of the old OpDB Data Hub cluster, which will cause HBase to fail to
            fully start, commonly with the error "Master is initializing. By stopping HBase with
            Cloudera Manager prior to shutting down an older OpDB Data Hub cluster, you can ensure
            that a new OpDB Data Hub cluster will start without error when using the same cloud
            storage location.

Related informationAWS account requirementsAzure subscription requirements