Using Streams Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud overviewCloudera Docs
Using Streams Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud overview
 Streams Replication Manager (SRM) can be deployed in both CDP PvC Base (on-prem) and
    Data Hub (cloud) clusters. You can use your SRM deployment to replicate Kafka data between CDP
    PvC Base and Data Hub clusters, or to replicate data between multiple Data Hub clusters. Review
    the following information to learn more about your deployment options, as well as the
    prerequisites and use cases for using SRM in a cloud-based context.
Starting with the December 2020 release of CDP Public Cloud, SRM is included in the default
      Streams Messaging cluster definitions. As a result, you can deploy SRM in a Data Hub cluster
      and use it to replicate data between all types of CDP clusters. This includes deployments with
      either Data Hub, CDP PvC Base, or both. 
The following sections provide information on how you can deploy SRM in a Data Hub cluster,
      what prerequisites you must meet before using SRM, and the common use cases where you can use
      SRM in a cloud-based context.
Differences between light and heavy deployments
In CDP Public Cloud, SRM can be deployed in Data Hub clusters with both the light and heavy
        duty variants of the Streams Messaging cluster definition. However, there are significant
        differences in how SRM is deployed with each definition: 
Light duty definition:
In the light duty definition, SRM is deployed by default on the broker and master
              hosts of the cluster. This means that SRM is available for use by default in a Data
              Hub cluster provisioned with the light duty definition. 
Heavy duty definition
In the heavy duty definition, SRM has its own host group. However, by default, the
              SRM host group is not provisioned. When creating a cluster with the heavy duty
              definition, you must set the instance count of the Srm nodes
              host group to at least one. Otherwise, SRM is not be deployed on the cluster.
For more information on cluster provisioning, see Creating your first Streams
          Messaging cluster. For more information on the default cluster definitions and
        cluster layouts, see Streams Messaging cluster layout.noteDeploying SRM in a
          Data Hub cluster requires version 7.2.6 or higher of Cloudera Runtime.

Prerequisites for using SRM
SRM can be used to replicate Kafka data between all types of CDP clusters. However, the
        following conditions must be met for all deployments and use cases: 

SRM must be able to access the Kafka hosts of the source and target cluster through
              the network.


SRM must trust the TLS certificates of the brokers in the source and target clusters. 
This is required so that SRM can establish a trusted connection.


SRM must have access to credentials that it can use to authenticate itself in both
              the source and target clusters.


SRM must use a principal that is authorized to access Kafka resources (topics) on
              both source and target clusters.



Cloud-based use cases for SRM 
There are three common uses cases when using SRM in a cloud-based context. These are as
        follows: 


Replicating data from a CDP PvC Base cluster to a Data Hub cluster with SRM running in
            the CDP PvC Base cluster.
noteAlthough in this use case SRM is not deployed in a Data Hub cluster, it is still
            considered as a cloud based use case as either the source or the destination of the
            replicated data is a Data Hub cluster.


Replicating data from a CDP PvC Base cluster to a Data Hub cluster with SRM running in
            the Data Hub cluster.


Replicating data between two Data Hub clusters.




Related informationSetting up your Streams Messaging clusterStreams Messaging cluster layout           