







































































Cloudera Now Virtual Event | Cloudera


























































Overview
Agenda
Speakers
Past sessions
Register now

























Virtual Event







THE OPEN DATA LAKEHOUSE FOR TRUSTED AI

Hybrid. Portable. Scalable. Built for your enterprise.
















 Register now












 

      








 






















Cloudera Now, our quarterly virtual event, is designed for all data practitioners including data scientists, data engineers, and analytics professionals who want to learn about our latest and greatest product innovations. Through comprehensive demos, customer use cases, and interactive Q&A, attendees will gain new skills and knowledge to bring back to their organizations.
 
Join us and be among the first to get early access to products, code drops, and sneak previews of new technologies. Can’t make it? You’ll be able to access all content on-demand to view at your convenience.











 

















What you can expect from Cloudera Now



















Drive results with the only open data lakehouse for trusted AI






With emerging technologies like large language models (LLM) and real-time self-service analytics at scale, your business requires the most advanced open data lakehouse to power fast and complete data workflows at the lowest cost. From data movement to AI and beyond, get everything you need to drive business impact at Cloudera Now.

 












Practical knowledge you can use






Whether you’re migrating to CDP Private Cloud or just starting your journey with Cloudera, take the guesswork out of implementing the latest updates and start delivering business impact fast.  Step-by-step walkthroughs, led by Cloudera experts, will help take your analytics and AI capabilities to new heights with practical implementation and optimization knowledge you can use today. Learn how to understand and optimize Cloudera Data Platform deployments across your data lakehouse, including how to deliver a scalable, open lakehouse on prem to power analytics and machine learning (ML).















Product demos






See demonstrations of new products, including the latest optimization tooling for ML and data engineering across any cloud. Learn how we enable trusted AI at scale—from LLMs to AI applications and whatever comes next. Discover how our new private cloud open data lakehouse enables any analytic and AI workload in any data center with full interoperability across any cloud. And don’t miss other great demos, like the latest developments and use cases for Apache Iceberg, how to modernize your data pipelines, and more.












Interactive Q&A sessions






Whether you’re looking to advance your ML capabilities, make data workflows fast and versatile with Apache Iceberg, or create transparent, observable data flows, we’ve got answers to all your questions. Join a live Q&A session to ask Cloudera product experts anything and everything you can think of about the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.









 








 



















Agenda














Harnessing Enterprise AI for LLMs and Beyond: Latest Innovations in ML & Data Engineering







Ying Chen, Product Manager
 Ian Brooks, Principal Sales Engineer
Advanced ML can be challenging, but with the latest innovations in ML and data engineering tooling, we will show you how to level up your predictive analytics game across your whole business. In this session, we will explore new features designed to improve data practitioner workflows to support the rapid development of enterprise AI applications on Cloudera’s open data lakehouse.
We will cover the specific enhancements made to model management, focusing on the model registry, and discuss their real-world applications. We will also discuss the new Interactive Sessions and Virtual Cluster types, and their importance in refining data engineering development workflows.

Key takeaways:

Understand the improvements in model development and management and how they apply to real-world scenarios.

Learn about the new Interactive Sessions and Virtual Cluster types and their role in streamlining data engineering development workflows.

Discover how these and other updates enable efficient and effective delivery of trusted enterprise data and AI solutions.





















Cloudera Open Data Lakehouse on Private Cloud: The Easy Button for Trusted AI







Navita Sood, Director Product Marketing, MDA
 Vineeth Varughese, Sr. Product Marketing Manager
Trusted AI needs trusted data from a trusted data lakehouse. Cloudera’s open data lakehouse now makes it easier than ever to turn your data into insight at scale, everywhere. No more compromises as CDP Private Cloud Base now adds support for Apache Iceberg, letting you deploy the same great analytics wherever you need them, across hybrid cloud.
In this session we will cover the key use cases that Cloudera’s open data lakehouse enables for organizations to become data-driven while improving data user efficiency and reducing costs. We’ll show you how, regardless of where your data is or what you are using to get value from it now, Cloudera lets you turn it into value faster with a platform that always operates best thanks to Cloudera Observability. You’ll see Cloudera’s Open Data Lakehouse in action and hear about the benefits customers are reaping. 
Key takeaways:

Cloudera’s open data lakehouse is now available for private cloud and can move with you across hybrid cloud as needed

Discover the latest data lakehouse use cases that let you reap insight and value 

Learn how Cloudera Observability makes Cloudera deployments always operate best

See how it’s now easier than ever to move to Cloudera’s open data lakehouse on premises.





















Mastering Data-in-Motion to Fuel AI







Tim Spann, Principal Developer Advocate, Data-in-Motion
In this session, we will explore how customers are building high-performance data pipelines with Cloudera’s Data-in-Motion capabilities to execute on their AI initiatives. We will focus on both generative AI as well as the process of building and deploying traditional ML against data of increasing velocity. 
Learn how to "own" data ingestion into vector databases for security and efficiency with a new NiFi processor exclusive to Cloudera customers that vectorizes data with connectors to popular vector databases. We will also cover how to use SQL to enable self-service analytics against streaming and batch data and how the resulting data can be used to drive ML efforts, including real-time scoring.  
Key takeaways:

Understand how to solve for ingestion into vector databases to drive generative AI

Discover how to ensure data pipeline security for trusted AI

Learn how to use SQL to accelerate traditional ML efforts from exploration through to real-time scoring for critical use cases





















Optimize Your Analytics With Workload-Aware Autoscaling







Manish Maheshwari, Director, Product Management
Keeping track of what runs where on which clusters, how it performs, and how or whether it could perform better is a big undertaking. Or rather, it used to be, but not anymore. Cloudera is proud to reveal its first applied observability solution that helps you understand and optimize your Cloudera Data Platform deployments across your data lakehouse.
Workload-Aware Autoscaling delivers a brand new compute autoscaling capability that allows your virtual data warehouse to be sized and used for diverse data storage and analytical workloads. This enables dynamically and on-demand, according to CPU and memory utilization, and effective parallelism required to deliver results for your business quickly.
Key takeaways:

Efficient SLA and cost-bound autoscaling and multithreading 

Effective and efficient hardware utilization of cloud provider compute instances 

Diverse workload management in a single VW to improve usability and workload management





















Integrating Cloudera Data Warehouse with Kudu Clusters







Manish Maheshwari, Director, Product Management
Apache Kudu is an open source distributed data storage engine that makes fast analytics on fast and changing data easy. Therefore, the combination of Apache Impala and Apache Kudu make a great combination for real-time analytics on streaming data for time series and real-time data warehousing use cases. In this session, we will discuss how you can now connect Apache Impala in Cloudera Data Warehouse service with Apache Kudu clusters running in Data Hub.
Key takeaways:

Get a primer on Apache Kudu, supported use cases, and customer case studies 

Learn how to integrate Apache Impala in CDW and and Kudu in Data Hub to achieve separation of compute (i.e., Impala) and storage (i.e., Kudu)

Learn the benefits of using Impala in CDW and scale up compute and storage independently on-demand


















 















Speakers









Santiago Giraldo
Sr. Director, Product Marketing - Hybrid Data Services








Ying Chen
Product Manager








Ian Brooks
Senior Solutions Engineer








Navita Sood
Director Product Marketing, MDA








Vineeth Varughese
Sr. Product Marketing Manager








Tim Spann
Principal DIM Specialist and Developer Advocate








Manish Maheshwari
Director, Product Management









 







      
       
      Not sure? Check out what past attendees have to say about Cloudera Now 
      














Amazing presentation of some genuinely out of the box feature sets.”
 
- Independent Consultant
 










Great webinar, well-tailored for tech and ease to business implementation.”
 
- Desert Consulting
 








 















Register now














                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                




























































 












                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




