Configuration OptionsCloudera Docs
Configuration Options
List of properties to configure SAML authentication and
    authorization in Cloudera Machine Learning.  
Cloudera Machine Learning Settings



Entity ID: Required. A globally unique
                name for Cloudera Machine Learning as a Service Provider.
                This is typically the URI.



NameID Format: Optional. The name
                identifier format for both Cloudera Machine Learning and
                Identity Provider to communicate with each other regarding a
                user. Default:
                  urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:1.1:nameid-format:emailAddress.



Authentication Context: Optional. SAML authentication
                  context classes are URIs that specify authentication
                methods used in SAML authentication requests and authentication
                statements. Default: 
                  urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:ac:classes:PasswordProtectedTransport.



Signing SAML Authentication Requests




CDSW Private Key for Signing Authentication
                    Requests: Optional. If you upload a private key,
                  you must upload a corresponding certificate as well so that
                  the Identity Provider can use the certificate to verify the
                  authentication requests sent by Cloudera Machine Learning. You can upload the private key used for both
                  signing authentication requests sent to Identity Provider and
                  decrypting assertions received from the Identity Provider.
                



CML Certificate for Signature
                        Validation: Required if the Cloudera Machine Learning Private Key is set, otherwise optional. You
                  can upload a certificate in the PEM format for the
                  Identity Provider to verify the
                    authenticity of the authentication requests generated
                  by Cloudera Machine Learning. The uploaded certificate
                  is made available at the
                      http://cdsw.company.com/api/v1/saml/metadata
                  endpoint.




SAML Assertion Decryption
Cloudera Machine Learning uses the following properties to
            support SAML assertion encryption & decryption. 

CML Certificate for Encrypting SAML Assertions - Must
                be configured on the Identity Provider so that Identity Provider
                can use it for encrypting SAML assertions for Cloudera Machine Learning

CML Private Key for Decrypting SAML Assertions - Used
                to decrypt the encrypted SAML assertions.



Identity Provider



Identity Provider SSO URL: Required. The
                entry point of the Identity Provider in the form of URI.



Identity Provider Signing Certificate:
                Optional. Administrators can upload the X.509 certificate of the Identity
                Provider for Cloudera Machine Learning to validate the
                incoming SAML responses.
Cloudera Machine Learning extracts the Identity Provider
                SSO URL and Identity Provider Signing Certificate information
                from the uploaded Identity Provider Metadata file. Cloudera Machine Learning also expects all Identity Provider metadata to
                be defined in a <md:EntityDescriptor> XML
                element with the namespace
                  "urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:metadata", as
                defined in the SAMLMeta-xsd schema.
For on-premises deployments, you must provide a certificate and
                private key, generated and signed with your trusted Certificate
                Authority, for Cloudera Machine Learning to establish
                secure communication with the Identity Provider. 



Authorization
When you're using SAML 2.0 authentication, you can use the
            following properties to restrict the access to Cloudera Machine Learning to certain groups of users:


SAML Attribute Identifier for User Role: The Object
                  Identifier (OID) of the user attribute that will be provided
                  by your identity provider for identifying a user’s
                  role/affiliation. You can use this field in combination with
                  the following SAML User Groups property to restrict
                  access to Cloudera Machine Learning to only members of
                  certain groups. 
For example, if your identity provider returns the
                    OrganizationalUnitName user attribute, you
                  would specify the OID of the
                    OrganizationalUnitName, which is
                    urn:oid:2.5.4.11, as the value for this
                  property. 



SAML User Groups: A list of groups whose users have
                  access to Cloudera Machine Learning. When this property
                  is set, only users that are successfully authenticated AND are
                  affiliated to at least one of the groups listed here, will be
                  able to access Cloudera Machine Learning. 
For example, if your identity provider returns the
                    OrganizationalUnitName user attribute, add
                  the value of this attribute to the SAML User Groups
                  list to restrict access to Cloudera Machine Learning to
                  that group.
If this property is left empty, all users that can
                  successfully authenticate themselves will be able to access
                  Cloudera Machine Learning. 



SAML Full Administrator Groups:
              A list of groups whose users are automatically granted the site
              administrator role on Cloudera Machine Learning.
The groups listed under SAML Full Administrator Groups
                  do not need to be listed again under the SAML User
                    Groups property. 





Parent topic: Configuring SAML Authentication