Configuring SAML AuthenticationCloudera Docs
Configuring SAML Authentication
This topic describes how to set up SAML for Single Sign-on
    authentication for a workspace. 
importantThis is not the recommended method to set up
      SSO. Cloudera recommends you use the CDP management console to set this
      up: Configuring User Access to
      CML.
Cloudera Machine Learning supports the Security Assertion Markup Language
          (SAML) for Single Sign-on (SSO)
        authentication; in particular, between an identity provider (IDP) and a
        service provider (SP). The SAML specification defines three roles: the
        principal (typically a user), the IDP, and the SP. In the use case
        addressed by SAML, the principal (user agent) requests a service from
        the service provider. The service provider requests and obtains an
        identity assertion from the IDP. On the basis of this assertion, the SP
        can make an access control decision—in other words it can decide whether
        to perform some service for the connected principal.
The primary SAML use case is called web browser single sign-on (SSO). A
        user with a user agent (usually a web browser) requests a web resource
        protected by a SAML SP. The SP, wanting to know the identity of the
        requesting user, issues an authentication request to a SAML IDP through
        the user agent. In the context of this terminology, Cloudera Machine Learning operates as a SP.
Cloudera Machine Learning supports both SP- and IDP-initiated
        SAML 2.0-based SSO. Its Assertion Consumer Service (ACS)
        API endpoint is for consuming assertions received from the Identity
        Provider. If your Cloudera Machine Learning domain root were
            cdsw.company.com, then this
        endpoint would be available at
            http://cdsw.company.com/api/v1/saml/acs.
        SAML 2.0 metadata is available at
            http://cdsw.company.com/api/v1/saml/metadata
        for IDP-initiated SSO. Cloudera Machine Learning uses HTTP Redirect Binding for
        authentication requests and expects to receive responses from HTTP POST Binding.
When Cloudera Machine Learning receives the SAML responses from
        the Identity Provider, it expects to see at least the following user
        attributes in the SAML responses:
The unique identifier or username. Valid attributes are: 

uid


urn:oid:0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.1



The email address. Valid attributes are:

mail


email


urn:oid:0.9.2342.19200300.100.1.3



The common name or full name of the user. Valid attributes are:

cn


urn:oid:2.5.4.3

 In the absence of the cn attribute, Cloudera
            Machine Learning will attempt to use the following user
            attributes, if they exist, as the full name of the user: 
The first name of the user. Valid attributes are:

givenName


urn:oid:2.5.4.42



The last name of the user. Valid attributes are:

sn


urn:oid:2.5.4.4








Configuration OptionsList of properties to configure SAML authentication and     authorization in Cloudera Machine Learning.  Parent topic: Configuring External Authentication with LDAP and SAML