LDAP Group SettingsCloudera Docs
LDAP Group Settings
In addition to the general LDAP settings, you can use group
    settings to restrict the access to Cloudera Machine Learning to certain
    groups in LDAP.




LDAP Group Search Base: The base
            distinguished name (DN) where Cloudera Machine Learning will search
            for groups.



LDAP Group Search Filter: The LDAP
            filter that Cloudera Machine Learning will use to determine whether
            a user is affiliated to a group. 
A group object in LDAP or Active
            Directory typically has one or more member attributes that stores the DNs of users in the group.
            If LDAP Group Search Filter is set
            to member={0}, Cloudera Machine
            Learning will automatically substitute the {0} placeholder for the DN of the
            authenticated user.



LDAP User Groups: A list of LDAP
            groups whose users have access to Cloudera Machine Learning. When
            this property is set, only users that successfully authenticate
            themselves AND are affiliated to at least one of the groups listed
            here, will be able to access Cloudera Machine Learning. 
If this property is left empty, all users that
            can successfully authenticate themselves to LDAP will be able to
            access Cloudera Machine Learning. 



LDAP Full Administrator Groups: A
            list of LDAP groups whose users are automatically granted the site administrator role on Cloudera
            Machine Learning.
The groups listed under LDAP Full Administrator Groups do
              not need to be listed again
            under the LDAP User Groups
            property. 

Figure 1. Example
If you want to restrict access to Cloudera
                Machine Learning to members of a group whose DN is:
CN=CMLUsers,OU=Groups,DC=company,DC=com
And automatically grant site administrator
                privileges to members of a group whose DN
                is:CN=CMLAdmins,OU=Groups,DC=company,DC=com

Add the CNs of both groups to the following
                settings in Cloudera Machine Learning:

LDAP User Groups:
                    CMLUsers

LDAP Full Administrator
                      Groups: CMLAdmins








Parent topic: Configuring LDAP/Active Directory Authentication