Removing a Cloudera Data Engineering serviceCloudera Docs
Removing a Cloudera Data Engineering service
Disabling an existing Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service stops
    all jobs, and deletes all associated virtual clusters and virtual cluster
    metadata. Do not do this unless you are certain that you no longer need any
    of these. Disabling CDE does not delete your CDP data. If enabling the CDE
    service on an environment for the first time fails, you must disable the
    service before you can try again. In this scenario, there are no clusters or
    jobs, and you can safely perform this procedure.

importantThe user interface for
        CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy access
        to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example, the
          Overview page has been replaced with the
          Home page. You can remove a CDE service by clicking
          Administration on the left-hand menu, then proceed to step 2 listed
        below. The new home page still displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access
        links located at the top for the following categories: Jobs,
          Resources, and Download & Docs.


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the
            Data Engineering tile and click
          Overview.

In the CDE Services column,  click the menu icon for the
          environment for which you want to disable the CDE service, and then click
            Disable CDE
warningDisabling an existing Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service stops all jobs,
          deletes all associated virtual clusters and virtual cluster metadata. Do not do this
          unless you are certain that you no longer need any of these. Additionally, if you're
          prompted to perform a Force Disable, in the event that a Disable is not successful, you
          must perform a manual cleanup of cloud infrastructures such as Security Group, EBS Volume,
          and S3 Bucket. A manual cleanup is not required for a standard
            Disable.Confirm that you want
          to disable CDE by typing the environment name and then clicking
            Disable.
The CDE Administration page displays the status of the
      environment that is being disabled.
If you disabled CDE as a result of a failure to enable CDE for
      the first time on an environment, resolve any reported issues, and then try again. 

