Adding a filter to a sheetCloudera Docs
Adding a filter to a sheet
Cloudera Data Visualization enables you to add filters to a sheet.
Open a dashboard of your choice in Edit mode.Choose a sheet in the dashboard where you plan to add visuals.In this example, a sheet called High GDP is used.
Select Filters in the Dashboard Designer side menu
            bar on the right.






In the ADD FILTERS menu, configure your filter as you
          need.

You can set the following options:




Custom Filter
Click CREATE CUSTOM FILTER at the top of the
                  Filters menu.Data Visualization adds a new filter to
                the filter area of the sheet. If you click the gear icon on
                the filer, the Settings window modal is displayed, where you
                can name the new filter and specify its value options, data handling, display,
                scope, and custom styling.For information on new dashboard-specific filter
                scope options, see Configuring scope of dashboard filters.
ConnectionData Visualization supports access to multiple data
                sources in the same dashboard, so you can change the connection to access visuals
                based on different connections and dataset.Click the name of the current
                connection, and select a different connection from the menu. When you change the
                connection, note that it changes the dataset to the first one that is available on
                that connection. This also updates the list of visuals that appear on the lower
                portion of the menu.
DatasetYou can change the source dataset of the visuals that you
                plan to add to your dashboard sheet. The new dataset may be on the same connection,
                or on a different connection.Click the name of the current dataset, and
                select a different dataset from the menu. This also updates the list of visuals that
                appear on the lower portion of the menu.

 Search
For datasets built on very wide tables, this option helps you find the base field
                for your filter.



Field Filter
Clicking one of the fields in either Dimensions or
                  Measures adds a basic filter based on that field into the
                filter area of the interface. Alternatively, you can also drag the field that you
                want to use as a filter and drop it into the filter bar on the sheet.In this
                example, the filter country has been added. You can use it directly, or open
                the Settings menu, where you can rename the filter and
                specify its value options, data handling, display, scope, and custom
              styling.

Field Groups
For ease of viewing, you can collapse or expand the list of fields in either
                  Dimensions, Measures, or
                both.Additionally, datasets that represent two or more joined tables group
                the fields of each table separately. Clicking the name of the table under
                  Dimensions or Measures toggles
                between expanding the list of these fields.




