Adding visuals to a sheetCloudera Docs
Adding visuals to a sheet
CDP Data Visualization enables you to add visuals to a sheet.
Open a dashboard of your choice in Edit mode.Choose a sheet in the dashboard where you plan to add visuals.
noteBy default, each new dashboard contains a single sheet.
This examples works with a sheet called High GDP.

In the Visual Builder side menu bar on the right, select
            Visuals.





In the Visuals menu, make configuration changes as you
          need.
You can set the following:





Recently Viewed Visuals
You can see here the new visuals added recently. Click one of the options in the
                  top menu to add a visual to the dashboard sheet.
ConnectionData Visualization supports access to multiple data
                  sources in the same dashboard, so you can change the connection to access visuals
                  based on different connections and dataset. The Connection
                  drop-down list lets you select an alternate connection. It is available in both
                  the Visuals and Filters menus.noteA dashboard can contain visuals from several
                    connections.Click the name of the current connection, and select a
                  different connection from the menu. When you change the connection, it changes the
                  dataset to the first one that is available on that connection. This also updates
                  the list of visuals that appear in the lower portion of the menu.
DatasetThe Dataset drop-down list lets you
                  select an alternate dataset. It is available in both
                    Visuals and Filters menus. noteA dashboard can contain visuals from multiple datasets
                    that share the same connection or from different datasets across different
                    connections. Click the name of the current dataset, and select a
                  different dataset from the menu. When you change the dataset, a new set of
                  existing visuals appears in the menu. You can change the source dataset of the
                  visuals that you plan to add to your dashboard sheet. The new dataset may be on
                  the same connection, or on a different connection.
New Visual
The NEW VISUAL button enables you to start a new visual
                  from within the dashboard. This creates a new table visual based on the chosen
                  dataset. You can open this visual in edit mode and make changes by selecting
                  another option from the Visual Catalog, populating the shelves of the visual,
                  customizing settings, colors, and so on.
Linked Visual
This option allows you to reuse an existing visual that has been previously
                  marked as linked. 
Click to select a visual that is marked with the
                        (linked) symbol.Data Visualization opens an
                          Add Linked Visual modal window.

Choose one of the following options:

Clone visual option, the default, makes a copy of
                          the linked visual. This new visual can be subsequently changed without
                          affecting the original visual.
Maintain link option keeps the association; any
                          changes made to the visual in one dashboard appear in all dashboards that
                          feature this same visual. 


After making your choice, click ADD VISUAL.

Existing Visual
Existing visuals that belong to the specified dataset are displayed lower on the
                  menu. Changing the dataset gives access to other visuals. You can click the
                  visuals to add them to the dashboard. To add a visual that already exists in this
                  dashboard and appears on another sheet, click the icon that represents this
                  visual.



Click SAVE to save all changes to the sheet.
To further enhance the dashboard sheet, add filters. For instructions, see
            Adding filters to a sheet.

