SET statementCloudera Docs
SET statement
The SET statement specifies values for query options that control the
    runtime behavior of other statements within the same session.  When issued in impala-shell, the SET command is interpreted as
        an impala-shell command that has differences from the SQL
          SET statement.
Syntax:
SET
SET ALL
SET query_option=option_value
SET query_option=""

SET and SET ALL with no arguments return a result set
      consisting of all the applicable query options and their current values.
    
      The query_option and option_value are
      case-insensitive.
    
      Unlike the impala-shell command version of SET, when
      used as a SQL statement, the string values for option_value need to be
      quoted, e.g. SET option="new_value".
    
      The SET query_option = "" statement unsets the value
      of the query_option in the current session, reverting it to the default
      state. In impala-shell, use the UNSET command to set a
      query option to its default.
     Each query option has a specific allowed notation for its arguments. See Query options for
          the SET statement for the details of each query option. 
Usage notes:

 The options are divided into groups: Regular Query
          Options, Advanced Query Options,
          Development Query Options, and Deprecated
          Query Options. 


 The advanced options are intended for use in specific kinds of
            performance tuning and debugging scenarios. 


 The development options are related to internal development of
            Impala or features that are not yet finalized. These options might
            be changed or removed without notice. 


 The deprecated options are related to features that are removed or
            changed so that the options no longer have any purpose. These
            options might be removed in future versions. 




          By default, only the first two groups, regular and advanced, are displayed by the
          SET command. Use SET ALL to see all groups of
          options.
        



impala-shell options and user-specified variables are always
          displayed at the end of the list of query options, after all appropriate option
          groups.
        


SET has always been available as an impala-shell
      command. Promoting it to a SQL statement lets you use this feature in client applications
      through the JDBC and ODBC APIs.
    
HDFS permissions: This statement does not touch any HDFS files or directories,
        therefore no HDFS permissions are required.
      
Cloudera Manager: You can set any of the query options globally in Cloudera Manager
      to affect all the queries in the cluster.
    


          Navigate to Impala cluster > Configuration >
          Impala Daemon Query Options Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve)


          In the field, type a key-value pair of a query option and the value, e.g.
          EXPLAIN_LEVEL=2.
        

          Click + to enter an additional option.
        

          Clive Save Changes.
        


Related informationQuery optionsSET command in impala-shell