Defining metadata tagsCloudera Docs
Defining metadata tags
The first step to access and use metadata that is stored in Atlas is to define
    metadata tags in Hue. Then you can use the search and indexing capabilities from Atlas in Hue
    and add metadata to Atlas without leaving the Hue UI.

As the Hue administrator, install sample tables, and then refresh the metadata. This
              example uses Impala.


Prepare Tables for Tagging


In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, launch Hue by selecting Clusters > Hue > Hue Web
                      UI > Hue Load Balanced.

In the top right corner of the page, select <user_name> > Hue
                        Administration > Step 2: Examples


Install the sample tables for Hive and Impala by clicking the download icons .

At the top of the page, click Query and then select Editor > Impala to go to the Impala SQL editor, click the refresh icon, select
                      Perform incremental metadata update, and then click
                      Refresh:


In the upper left corner of the page, select the menu icon  and then select Browsers > Tables to load the Table Browser.
In the Table Browser, click Refresh on the right side of the
                    page. This ensures that the sample tables are available to work with in Hue.



Tag a Database, Table, and Field


At the top of the Table Browser page, click the table icon  to display the Databases page, and then
                  click default or some other database. This loads a detail view
                  of the database

To add a database tag, click Add tags..., enter a tag name in
                    the text box, click Add <tag_name>...,
                    and then click the check on the right to save the tag:



To add a table tag, click a table name, for example
                  customers, which loads a detail view of the table where you
                can define a tag:


Click Add tags...:


Enter a tag name in the text box, click Add
                      <tag_name>..., and then click the check on
                      the right to save the tag. This is the same process you performed for tagging the
                      database in Step 2.



To add a field tag:


Click the information icon by a column name:


In the dialog box that opens, click Add tags..., enter a
                      tag name in the text box, click Add
                        <tag_name>..., and then click the check on
                      the right to save the tag.



Now, you have added tags to a database, a table, and a field (column) and you can search
                using these tag names.



Parent topic: Using governance-based data discovery