Configuring YARN Docker Containers SupportCloudera Docs
Configuring YARN Docker Containers Support
You can configure YARN to run Docker containers. 
Docker containerization provides isolation and enables you to run multiple versions of the
      same applications side-by-side. For example, you can have a stable production version of an
      application while you evaluate a test version. 
On the other hand, using Docker containers introduces a new layer of virtualization, thus
      creates some overhead compared to regular containers.
Running Docker containers on YARN works very similar to running regular containers. Containers
      have access to files that are localized for the container as well as logging.
To facilitate the use of YARN features, the following rules need to be followed: 

The processes in the containers must run as the user submitting the application
          (or the local-user in insecure mode).


The mount allowlist must include the yarn.local.dirs so that the files needed for
          the application are available in the container. This is ensured by Cloudera Manager.



Prerequisites for installing DockerDocker's container management capabilities are highly dependent on the Linux OS         kernel version and capabilities. As a result, Docker only supports systems with modern         kernels. It is recommended to check with your operating system vendor for supported system         configurations for use with Docker.Recommendations for managing Docker containers on YARNYARN expects that Docker is already installed on all NodeManager hosts where Docker containers will run.          Consider these recommendations before installing and configuring Docker for use with YARN.     Installing DockerIdentify the version of Docker provided by your operating system vendor and install         it.Configuring DockerAfter Docker is installed, edit the Docker's daemon configuration (daemon.json) file         to add the recommended configuration.Configuring YARN for managing Docker containersUse Cloudera Manager to configure YARN for managing Docker containers.Docker on YARN configuration propertiesYou can use the properties under the Docker on YARN filter in Cloudera Manager to     configure the Docker on YARN feature.