Docker on YARN configuration propertiesCloudera Docs
Docker on YARN configuration properties
You can use the properties under the Docker on YARN filter in Cloudera Manager to
    configure the Docker on YARN feature.


Name
Property
Default value
Description




Enable Docker Containers



false (unselected) 


Specifies if Docker containers in YARN are enabled.




Allowed Linux Runtimes

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.allowed-runtimes
default

Specifies the runtimes that are allowed when LinuxContainerExecutor is used.




Sleep Delay Before SIGKILL

yarn.nodemanager.sleep-delay-before-sigkill.ms

10 (ms)


Specifies the time in milliseconds between sending a SIGTERM and a SIGKILL signal
                to a running container.




Allowed Docker Container Networks

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.allowed-container-networks
host, none, bridge

Specifies the networks that are allowed for Docker containers. Valid values are
                determined by Docker networks available from the docker network ls
                command.




Default Docker Container Network

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.default-container-network
host

Specifies which allowed network is used when launching Docker containers but no
                network is specifies in the request. This network must be added to
                  yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.allowed-container-network.
              




Allow Using Host PID Namespace for Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.host-pid-namespace.allowed

false (unselected)


Specifies if Docker containers are allowed to use the host PID namespace.




Allow Privileged Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.privileged-containers.allowed

false (unselected)


Specifies if applications are allowed to run in privileged containers. Privileged
                containers are granted the complete set of capabilities and are not subject to the
                limitations imposed by the device cgroup controller. Use with extreme care!




Allow Delayed Removal of Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.delayed-removal.allowed

false (unselected)


Specifies if Debug Deletion Delay is used for Docker containers. Debug Deletion
                Delay is useful for troubleshooting Docker container related launch failures. For
                more information, see yarn.nodemanager.delete.debug-delay-sec.




ACL for Privileged Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.privileged-containers.acl

Empty


A comma-separated list that specifies the users who can request privileged Docker
                containers if privileged Docker containers are allowed.




Docker Capabilities

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.capabilities
CHOWN,DAC_OVERRIDE,FSETID,FOWNER,MKNOD,NET_RAW,SETGID,SETUID,SETFCAP,SETPCAP,NET_BIND_SERVICE,SYS_CHROOT,KILL,AUDIT_WRITE

Specifies the capabilities assigned to Docker containers when they are launched.
                The values may not be case-sensitive from a docker perspective, but Cloudera
                recommends to keep them uppercase.




Enable User Remapping for Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.enable-userremapping.allowed

true


Specifies if Docker containers can run with the UID (User Identifier) and GID
                (Group Identifier) of the calling user.




User Remapping UID Threshold for Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.userremapping-uid-threshold
1

Specifies the minimum UID (User Identifier) for a remapped user. Users with UIDs
                lower than this minimum value are not allowed to launch Docker containers when user
                remapping
                  (yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.enable-userremapping.allowed)
                is enabled.




User Remapping GID Threshold for Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.userremapping-gid-threshold
1

Specifies the minimum GID (Group Identifier) for a remapped user. Users with GIDs
                lower then this minimum value are not allowed to launch Docker containers when user
                remapping
                  (yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.enable-userremapping.allowed)
                is enabled.




Default Read-Only Mounts for Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.default-ro-mounts

Although, it is not visible on the UI, the NodeManager Local Directories and
                Cgroups root are always added to this list.


A list that specifies the default read-only mounts to be bind-mounted into all
                Docker containers that use DockerContainerRuntime. NodeManager Local Directories and
                Cgroups root are always added to this list. Ensure that any additional default
                read-only mounts are also added to the Allowed Read-Only Mounts list.




Default Read-Write Mounts for Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.default-rw-mounts

Although, it is not visible on the UI, the NodeManager Local Directories and
                NodeManager Container Log Directories are always added to this list.


A list that specifies the default read-write mounts to be bind-mounted into all
                Docker containers that use DockerContainerRuntime. NodeManager Local Directories and
                NodeManager Container Log Directories are always added to this list. Ensure that any
                additional default read-write mounts are also added to the Allowed Read-Write Mounts
                list.




Allowed Read-Only Mounts for Docker Containers

docker.allowed-ro-mounts

Although, it is not visible on the UI, the NodeManager Local Directories and
                Cgroups root are always added to this list.


Specifies the directories that Docker containers are allowed to mount in read-only
                mode. NodeManager Local Directories and Cgroups root are always added to this list.
                Ensure that any additional default read-only mounts are also added here.




Allowed Read-Write Mounts for Docker Containers

docker.allowed-rw-mounts

Although, it is not visible on the UI, the NodeManager Local Directories and
                NodeManager Container Log Directories are always added to this list.


Specifies the directories that Docker containers are allowed to mount in read-write
                mode. NodeManager Local Directories and NodeManager Container Log Directories are
                always added to this list. Ensure that any additional default read-write mounts are
                also added here.




Default Tempfs Mounts for Docker Containers

yarn.nodemanager.runtime.linux.docker.default-tmpfs-mounts

Empty - no directories are allowed in tmpfs to be mounted.


Specifies the directories in tmpfs that Docker containers are allowed to mount. By
                default, no directories are allowed in tmpfs to be mounted.




Docker Binary Path

docker.binary
/usr/bin/docker

Specifies the path of the binary in the hosts that is used to launch Docker
                containers.




Allowed Devices for Docker Containers

docker.allowed.devices

Empty - no devices are allowed to be mounted.


Specifies the devices that Docker containers are allowed to mount.




Allowed Volume Drivers for Docker Containers

docker.allowed.volume-drivers

Empty - no volume drivers are allowed.


Specifies the volume drivers which are allowed to be used with Docker.




Enable No-new-privileges Flag for Docker Containers

docker.no-new-privileges.enabled


false (unselected)


Specifies if the no-new-privileges flag for docker run is enabled. The
                no-new-privileges flag ensures that the process or its children processes do not
                gain any additional privileges.




Trusted Registries for Docker Containers

docker.trusted-registries

Empty - no registries are defined.


A list that specifies the trusted docker registries for running trusted Docker
                containers.




Related informationConfiguring YARN for managing Docker containersParent topic: Configuring YARN Docker Containers Support