Using the HBCK2 tool to remediate HBase clustersCloudera Docs
Using the HBCK2 tool to remediate HBase clusters
The HBCK2 tool is a repair tool that you can use to remediate Apache HBase clusters. The
  HBCK2 tool is the next version of the Apache HBase hbck tool.
The HBCK2 tool is a repair tool to remediate Apache HBase clusters in CDP. The HBCK2
   tool is the next version of the Apache HBase hbck tool.
To identify a list of inconsistencies or blockages in a running HBase cluster, you can view the
   Master logs. Once you have identified the issue, you can then use the HBCK2 tool to fix the
   defect or to skip-over a bad state. The HBCK2 tool uses an interactive fix-it process by asking
   the Master to make the fixes rather than carry out the repair locally. 
The HBCK2 performs a single, discrete task each time it is run. The HBCK2 tool does
   not analyze everything in a running cluster and repair all the problems. Instead, you can use the
   HBCK2 tool to iteratively find and fix issues in your cluster. The HBCK2 tool lets you use
   interactive commands to fix one issue at a time.
importantThe HBCK2 tool is specific to internals of Apache HBase. Using this tool
   requires binaries that are specific to your version of CDP Runtime, and you must always use it
   with the assistance of Cloudera Support and/or Cloudera Professional Services. Please contact
   Cloudera Support if you believe you have an issue that requires using the HBCK2 tool.

Running the HBCK2 toolYou can run the HBCK2 tool from the command-line interface in your target         cluster.Finding issuesThe HBCK2 tool enables you to use interactive commands to fix one issue at a time. If         you have multiple issues, you may have to run the tool iteratively to find and resolve all         the issues. Use the following utilities and commands to find the issues.Fixing issuesYou can fix issues using the HBCK2 tool.HBCK2 tool command referenceYou can use this list of HBCK2 commands in your target cluster's command-line         interface.