HBase is using more disk space than expectedCloudera Docs
HBase is using more disk space than expected
HBase StoreFiles (also called HFiles) store HBase row data on disk.
        HBase stores other information on disk, such as write-ahead logs (WALs),
        snapshots, data that would otherwise be deleted but would be needed to
        restore from a stored snapshot. warningThe following
          information is provided to help you troubleshoot high disk usage only.
          Do not edit or remove any of this data outside the scope of the HBase
          APIs or HBase Shell, or your data is very likely to become
          corrupted.
Table 1. HBase Disk Usage

Location
Purpose
Troubleshooting Notes




/hbase/.snapshots

Contains one subdirectory per snapshot. 
To list snapshots, use the HBase Shell command
                  list_snapshots. To remove a snapshot, use
                  delete_snapshot.



/hbase/.archive

Contains data that would otherwise have been deleted
                (either because it was explicitly deleted or expired due to TTL
                or version limits on the table) but that is required to restore
                from an existing snapshot.
To free up space being taken up by excessive archives,
                delete the snapshots that refer to them. Snapshots never expire
                so data referred to by them is kept until the snapshot is
                removed. Do not remove anything from
                  /hbase/.archive manually, or you will corrupt
                your snapshots.



/hbase/.logs

Contains HBase WAL files that are required to recover
                regions in the event of a RegionServer failure.
WALs are removed when their contents are verified to have
                been written to StoreFiles. Do not remove them manually. If the
                size of any subdirectory of /hbase/.logs/ is
                growing, examine the HBase server logs to find the root cause
                for why WALs are not being processed correctly.



/hbase/logs/.oldWALs

Contains HBase WAL files that have already been written to
                disk. A HBase maintenance thread removes them periodically based
                on a TTL.
To tune the length of time a WAL stays in the
                  .oldWALs before it is removed, configure the
                  hbase.master.logcleaner.ttl property, which
                defaults to 60000 milliseconds, or 1 hour.



/hbase/.logs/.corrupt

Contains corrupted HBase WAL files. 
Do not remove corrupt WALs manually. If the size of any
                subdirectory of /hbase/.logs/ is growing,
                examine the HBase server logs to find the root cause for why
                WALs are not being processed correctly.


