







































































Cloudera Now 2022 On-demand






























X
Register to access Cloudera Now on-demand








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                





















































































Introduction
Keynote & Tracks
Tour CDP One

















THINK BIGGER,
MOVE FASTER,
GO HYBRID
























Welcome to Cloudera Now on-demand
We’re happy you have joined us for Cloudera Now where you can learn how a modern hybrid data architecture can help your company thrive in the rapidly changing data landscape. Below you can watch the keynote or pick from one of the tracks.










 



 







 








 
      
      
      Come as you are, get where you’re going
      









Keynote





Technical Track





Driving Outcomes Track







Keynote
Technical Track
Driving Outcomes Track









      
       
      Keynote | Think Bigger, Move Faster, Go Hybrid 
      


















1 hr


Keynote








Ram Venkatesh, Chief Technology Officer
Wim Stoop, Director, Product Marketing
David Dichmann, Senior Director, Product Management
Hana Jeddy, Director, Product Marketing
Gordon Coale, Senior Director - Enterprise Architect for Data CWT

Join the keynote where Cloudera executives and special guests kick-off what’s new at Cloudera Now















      
       
      Technical Track
      


















30 min


Collect & move streaming data from any source to any destination







Michael Kohs, Senior Product Manager
Companies have not treated the collection, distribution, and tracking of data as a first-class problem resulting in an unmanageable number of disparate point to point integrations.

In this session learn how organizations streamline development and operation of their data flows with Cloudera DataFlow for the Public Cloud (CDF-PC) through:

Hundreds of pre-built connectors & processors to connect to on-prem and cloud systems


Auto-scaling data flows optimizing infrastructure utilization and cost


Intuitive, visual development tooling allowing quick iterations and promoting reusability

Also learn how you can run data flows in a completely serverless way in the public cloud using DataFlow Functions

 
















30 min


Accelerate your journey to CDP








Vineeth Varughese, Manager Product Marketing
Mark Shoeni, Senior Manager, Product Management
Shiv Moorthy, Director, Product Management

Begin your journey to CDP and learn how to build innovative new use cases leveraging hybrid data to solve business problems faster than ever before. With an array of paths available to migrate your workloads from legacy platforms, it's never been easier to supercharge your insights. Join us to see how Cloudera's hybrid data platform opens the door for customers to leverage orbital tracking data to literally 'reach for the stars'.ytics projects by business value.

















30 min


Build an open data lakehouse with iceberg








David Dichmann, Senior Director, Product Management
Navita Sood, Director, Product Marketing

Walk through a journey from evaluation to deployment of an Open data lakehouse powered by Apache Iceberg. We will share details of how to execute a first change data capture use case and other data science use cases on the lakehouse. This session will also include a demo of how you can deploy an open lakehouse on the Cloudera Data Platform for real time analytics of sensor data using machine learning models. You will see Iceberg capabilities in action like time travel, in-place table evolution and Rollback.
















30 min


Radically simplify data and analytics with Cloudera








Jake Bengston, Senior Manager, Product Marketing 
Lovan Chetty, Sr. Director, Product Mgmt
Gordon Coale, Senior Director - Enterprise Architect for Data CWT
Hana Jeddy - Director, Product Marketing

Learn how Cloudera will make it easier and faster than ever before to deploy analytics and ML. We’ll hear from a customer how they’re accelerating time to value on their data across the enterprise.















      
       
      Driving Outcomes Track
      


















30 min


Accelerate your business value with hybrid







Cindy Maike, Vice President, Industry Solutions
Businesses want more value from data and analytics – but time, cost and complexity often stand in the way. How can data-driven leaders work smarter and not harder to deliver more impact and innovation? In this talk, find out how strategic use of hybrid technologies* can radically accelerate outcomes, optimize costs and reduce risks. Hear inspiration and real-world success stories, and get advice for prioritizing data and analytics projects by business value.

















30 min


Architect for impact








Luke Roquet, Vice President, Product Marketing
Find out how businesses are driving new value and solving old problems with modern data architectures including data lakehouses, data fabric and data mesh. Learn what’s new with these architectural approaches and how they can unlock new business opportunities and next-gen data applications. Understand how modern architectures ease perennial challenges around data access, governance, compliance and security.
















30 min


How Ramsey International uses Cloudera to accelerate the delivery of high-impact, next-gen data apps in a hybrid, multi-cloud environment








Mark Ramsey, Managing Partner - Ramsey Intl
Learn how customers are building modern data applications using Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) to evolve their existing data lakehouses, data fabric, and/or data mesh models into modernized data applications. From pharmaceuticals, to manufacturing, and other industries, listen and learn how these customers utilize Cloudera to accelerate, build. and deliver high-impact, next-gen applications.
































                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




