CLI options of the fs2cs conversion toolCloudera Docs
CLI options of the fs2cs conversion tool
List of the CLI options of the fs2cs conversion tool.


Option
Description



-d,--dry-run


Performs a dry-run of the conversion. Outputs whether the conversion is possible or
                not.



-f,--fsconfig <arg> 

Absolute path to a valid fair-scheduler.xml configuration
                file.
By default, yarn-site.xml contains the property which defines the
                path of fair-scheduler.xml. Therefore, the -f /
                  --fsconfig settings are optional. 



-h,--help

Displays the list of options.



-o,--output-directory <arg>

Output directory for yarn-site.xml and capacity-scheduler.xml files. Must have
                write permission for the user who is running this script.
If -p or --print is specified, the xml files are
                emitted to the standard output, so the -o / --output-directory is
                ignored.



-p,--print

If defined, the converted configuration will only be emitted to the console.
If -p or --print is specified, the xml files are emitted to the standard output, so
                the -o / --output-directory is ignored.



-pc,-percentage

This option is supported in CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6 and
                higher versions.
By default the fs2cs conversion utility converts into weight mode.
                Using -pc you can change it to relative (percentage) mode. Note that there are some
                scheduler transition limitations that are resolved in weight mode but not in
                relative (percentage) mode.
Relative mode can be considered the “legacy” mode of Capacity Scheduler, where
                capacities are expressed in percentages.



-r,--rulesconfig <arg>

Optional parameter. If specified, should point to a valid path to the conversion
                rules file (property format).



-s, --skip-verification

It does not validate the converted Capacity Scheduler configuration. By default,
                the utility starts an internal Capacity Scheduler instance to see whether it can
                start up properly or not. This switch disables this behaviour.



-t,--no-terminal-rule-check

Disables checking whether a placement rule is terminal to maintain backward
                compatibility with configs that were made before YARN-8967.
By default, Fair Scheduler performs a strict check of whether a placement rule is
                terminal or not. This means that if you use a <reject> rule which is followed by
                a <specified> rule, then this is not allowed, since the latter is unreachable.
                However, before YARN-8967, Fair Scheduler was more lenient
                and allowed certain sequences of rules that are no longer valid. Inside the tool, a
                Fair Scheduler instance is instantiated to read and parse the allocation file. In
                order to have Fair Scheduler accept such configurations, the -t or
                --no-terminal-rule-check argument must be supplied to avoid the
                Fair Scheduler instance throwing an exception.



-y,--yarnsiteconfig <arg>

Path to a valid yarn-site.xml configuration file.




Parent topic: Converting Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler using the fs2cs conversion utility