Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler migration overviewCloudera Docs
Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler migration overview
You must migrate from Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler when migrating your cluster
  to CDP. The migration process involves automatically converting certain Fair Scheduler
  configuration to Capacity Scheduler configuration and manual fine tuning after the
  migration.
In CDP, Capacity Scheduler is the default and supported scheduler. You have to migrate from
   Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler when migrating from CDH to CDP Private Cloud Base. It does not matter what CDH version you are migrating
   from, or what CDP version you are migrating to, the scheduler migration steps remain the
   same.
The fs2cs conversion utility is used to convert the Fair Scheduler configuration into Capacity
   Scheduler. From  CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6, the fs2cs conversion utility
   converts from weight resource allocation mode into weight resource allocation mode by default. In
   lower versions the utility converts to relative resource allocation mode by default.
importantThe features of Capacity Scheduler are not the same
   as the features of Fair Scheduler. Hence, the fs2cs conversion utility cannot
   convert every Fair Scheduler configuration into a Capacity Scheduler configuration. After the
   automatic conversion and once the migration is completed, you must manually tune the scheduler
   configurations to ensure that the resulting scheduling configuration fits your organization’s
   internal goals and SLAs.
The scheduler migration process includes migrating the YARN settings from Fair Scheduler to
   Capacity Scheduler. When converting your Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler, you will perform
   the following steps: 
Learn about why only one scheduler, the Capacity Scheduler, is supported in CDP. 
Plan your scheduler conversion: Read about the conversion limitations, and ensure you
     understand what properties are converted by the conversion utility and what properties require
     manual conversion and fine tuning once the migration is complete. 
Convert Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler: Download the Fair Scheduler configuration, and
     use the fs2cs conversion utility to convert the Fair Scheduler configuration into Capacity
     Scheduler configuration. After conversion, upload the new configuration files. 
Migrate all of your data to CDP. 
Manually configure and fine-tune the Capacity Scheduler so it fits your organization’s
     goals. 
Start using the Capacity Scheduler.

For more information, click on the step that interests you:




Related informationComparison of Fair Scheduler with Capacity SchedulerManaging and allocating cluster resources using Capacity Scheduler