Converting Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler using the fs2cs conversion utilityCloudera Docs
Converting Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler using the fs2cs conversion
        utility
You can use the fs2cs conversion utility to automatically convert certain Fair
        Scheduler configuration to Capacity Scheduler configuration.

From the CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1 release, Cloudera provides
                a conversion tool, called fs2cs conversion utility. This utility is a CLI
                application that is part of the yarn CLI command. It generates
                    capacity-scheduler.xml and yarn-site.xml as
                output files.
From CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6, the fs2cs conversion utility
                converts the scheduler configuration from weight resource allocation mode in Fair
                Scheduler to weight resource allocation mode in Capacity Scheduler. However, this
                can be changed by using the -pc command line option. If
                    -pc is used, the fs2cs conversion utility converts from weight
                resource allocation mode to relative (percentage) mode. 
importantThe features of Capacity Scheduler are not
                exactly the same as the features of Fair Scheduler. Hence, the fs2cs
                conversion utility cannot convert every Fair Scheduler configuration into a Capacity
                Scheduler configuration. After the automatic conversion and once the migration is
                completed, you must manually tune the scheduler configurations to ensure that the
                resulting scheduling configuration fits your organization’s internal goals and SLAs
                after conversion.
When using the fs2cs utility to automatically convert your Fair Scheduler into a
                Capacity Scheduler, you have to perform the following steps:








Be aware of the Fair Scheduler properties that are auto-converted, those that
                    require manual configuration, and those that do not have an equivalent feature
                    in Capacity Scheduler. To learn about how properties are converted, see Plan your scheduler migration.
You must have downloaded and distributed parcels for the target version of CDP.



Download the Fair Scheduler configuration files from the Cloudera Manager data
                    store:


In Cloudera Manager for the CDH cluster, navigate to Host > All Hosts.


Find the host with the ResourceManager role and click the
                                YARN ResourceManager role.


Click Process.


Find and save the fair-scheduler.xml and
                                yarn-site.xml configuration files for future
                            reference.



Use the fs2cs conversion utility:


Log in to the host machine which is part of the CDP cluster using
                                ssh.


Copy the downloaded XML files to this host using
                            scp.


Create a new directory to save the
                                capacity-scheduler.xml file that is generated by
                            the fs2cs conversion utility:

$ mkdir -p output



Use the fs2cs conversion utility to auto-convert the structure of
                            resource pools:

$ yarn fs2cs [--cluster-resource <vcores/memory>][--no-terminal-rule-check] --yarnsiteconfig </path/to/yarn-site.xml> [--fsconfig </path/to/fair-scheduler.xml>] --output-directory </output/path/> [--print] [--skip-verification]  



For example, if ou copied the XML files to
                        /home/migration, then you can use the following
                    command:$ yarn fs2cs --yarnsiteconfig /home/migration/yarn-site.xml --fsconfig /home/migration/fair-scheduler.xml --output-directory /home/migration/output --no-terminal-rule-check

For a detailed list of switches supported by the fs2cs conversion utility,
                        use yarn fs2cs --help. 
noteYou have to provide an absolute path for the
                            yarn-site.xml and the
                            fair-scheduler.xml configuration file. If only the file
                        names are provided the command fails. 


Provide the generated Capacity Scheduler configuration in Cloudera
                    Manager:


Remove the following invalid tags from the fs2cs conversion utility
                            generated yarn-site.xml file:


header
configuration tags
final tags
source tags




In Cloudera Manager for the CDP cluster, select the
                                YARN service.


Click Configuration.


Search for capacity-scheduler and find the
                                Capacity Scheduler Configuration Advanced Configuration
                                Snipper (Safety Valves).


Click View as XML and insert the full content of
                            the capacity-scheduler.xml file that was generated by
                            the converter tool.


Click Save Changes.


Search for yarn-site and find the
                                YARN Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                                Valve) for yarn-site.xml.


Click View as XML and insert the full content of
                            the yarn-site.xml file that was generated by the
                            converted tool.


Click Save Changes.



Restart the YARN and Queue Manager services.

If the fs2cs conversion utility
            command fails, check if you provided the correct absolute path for the
                yarn-site.xml and the fair-scheduler.xml
            configuration file. 
Proceed with the migration to CDP. After the migration
                is completed, manually tune the configuration generated by the fs2cs
                conversion utility using Queue Manager UI and Cloudera Manager Advanced
                configuration snippet (Safety Valves).

CLI options of the fs2cs conversion toolList of the CLI options of the fs2cs conversion tool.