Manual configuration of scheduler propertiesCloudera Docs
Manual configuration of scheduler properties
After migrating to CDP, you must manually fine-tune the scheduler configurations using
  the YARN Queue Manager UI to ensure that the resulting configurations suit your requirements. You
  can use Cloudera Manager Advanced configuration snippet (Safety Valve) to configure a property
  that is missing from the YARN Queue Manager UI.
The features of Capacity Scheduler are not exactly the same as the features of Fair
   Scheduler. Hence, the conversion utility cannot convert every Fair Scheduler
   configuration into a Capacity Scheduler configuration. Therefore, you must manually tune
   the scheduler configurations to ensure that the resulting scheduling configuration fits
   your organization’s internal goals and SLAs after conversion. If needed, further change
   the scheduler properties in the  capacity-scheduler.xml and
   yarn-site.xml output files generated by the fs2cs
   conversion utility. For information about the Fair Scheduler properties that are
   auto-converted by the fs2csconversion utility, see Auto-converted
    Fair Scheduler properties.
You can configure the properties manually using the YARN Queue Manager UI. If you see a
   property that is unavailable in the Queue Manager UI, you can use Cloudera Manager configuration
   snipper (Safety Valves) to configure them. importantYou must not use the Queue
    Manager UI and Cloudera Manager Safety Valves at the same time as safety valves overwrite the
    configuration set using Queue Manager UI.

Related informationAuto-converted Fair Scheduler propertiesManaging and allocating cluster resources using Capacity SchedulerUsing YARN Queue Manager UI to configure scheduler propertiesAfter migrating to CDP, you must configure the Capacity Scheduler properties using         the output files generated by the fs2cs conversion utility. You can configure         the properties manually using the YARN Queue Manager UI service.Using Cloudera Manager Safety Valves to configure scheduler propertiesCertain scheduler properties can neither be converted by the fs2cs         conversion utility nor be configured using the YARN Queue Manager UI service. After         migrating to CDP, you must manually configure these properties using the Cloudera Manager         advanced configuration snippet (Safety Valves).