Creating your clusterCloudera Docs
Creating your cluster
Once you have met the prerequisites, you are ready to create a managed and secured
    Streams Messaging cluster in CDP Public Cloud by using one of the prescriptive Streams Messaging
    cluster definitions.

Log into the CDP web interface.Navigate to Management Console
               > Environments, and select the
          environment where you would like to create a cluster.Click Create Data Hub.The following page is
            displayed:
Select Cluster Definition.

Select the appropriate Streams Messaging cluster definition from the Cluster
            Definition dropdown depending on your operational objectives.
For more information on templates, see Planning your Streams Messaging
            deployment.The list of services is automatically shown below the selected cluster
          definition name.
Give the cluster a name and add any tags you might need.You can define
          tags that will be applied to your cluster-related resources on your cloud provider
          account. For more information about tags, see Tags.If using the Streams Messaging High Availability definitions, ensure that you
          select multiple subnets.Multiple subnets can be selected by navigating to Advanced Options > Network And Availability.Optional: 
Add Kafka KRaft to your cluster.
noteKafka KRaft is available in this version of CDP but
        is not ready for production deployment. Cloudera encourages you to explore this technical
        preview feature in non-production environments and provide feedback on your experiences
        through the Cloudera Community Forums. For more information regarding KRaft limitations and
        unsupported features, see Unsupported Streams Messaging features. Kraft nodes are not provisioned by default in any of the Streams
          Messaging cluster definitions. If you want to run Kafka in KRaft mode, you must set the
            Instance Count of the Kraft Nodes host group
          to an odd number. An odd number of nodes is required because KRaft requires an odd number
          of instances to function. Cluster provisioning fails if the number of KRaft nodes is set
          to an even number.noteWhile it is possible to run
            Kafka in KRaft mode with a single KRaft node, Cloudera recommends that you provision a
            minimum of three nodes to avoid having a single point of failure. Additionally, note
            that ZooKeeper service instances are still deployed even in KRaft mode. You can
            optionally delete ZooKeeper after the cluster is deployed. 


Go to Advanced Options > Hardware and Storage.


Locate the Kraft Nodes host group and click  to edit host group
              details.


Set the Instance Count to at an odd number


Click  to save your
              changes.


Optional: Add SRM or Kafka Connect to Heavy Duty
          clusters.SRM and Kafka Connect nodes are not provisioned by default when using the Streams Messaging
          Heavy Duty definition. If you are using this definition and want to have SRM, Kafka
          Connect, or both deployed in the cluster, set the Instance Count of
          the Srm Nodes or Connect Nodes host group to
          at least one.
Go to Advanced
                  Options > Hardware and
              Storage.
Locate the appropriate host group and click  to edit host group
              details.
Set the Instance Count to at least 1.
importantIf you want to deploy SRM in high availability mode, set the
                instance count of Srm Nodes to two or higher.

Click  to save
              your changes.
Optional: Use the Advanced Options section to
          customize the infrastructure settings.
importantIf you customize the hardware and storage properties of the
            cluster, ensure that Attached Volume per Instances  is set to the
            same value for both the Broker and
              Core_brokers host groups. Alternatively, if you want to provision
            a cluster where the number of volumes is not identical for the two host groups, ensure
            that you complete Configure data directories for clusters with custom disk
              configurations after the cluster is provisioned. Otherwise, Kafka does not
            utilize all available volumes. Additionally, scaling the cluster might also not be
            possible.
Click Provision Cluster.
You will be redirected to the Data Hub cluster dashboard, and a
      new tile representing your cluster will appear at the top of the page.
 What steps you take next depends on how you configured your cluster
If you have provisioned KRaft nodes in your cluster, you can optionally choose to remove
          ZooKeeper from your cluster. For more information, see Deleting ZooKeeper from
            Streams Messaging clusters.
If you configured Attached Volume per Instances and the volume
          count is not identical for the Broker and
            Core_brokers host groups, continue with Configuring data
            directories for clusters with custom disk configurations. 
 If you did not customize Attached Volume per Instances   or do
          not want to remove ZooKeeper, continue with Give users access to your
          cluster.


Related informationCreate a cluster from a definition on AWS Create a cluster from a definition on Azure Create a cluster from a definition on GCP TagsStreams Messaging deployment scenariosConfiguring data directories for clusters with custom disk
              configurationsGive users access to your clusterDeleting ZooKeeper from Streams Messaging clusters
