Troubleshooting with the Job Comparison FeatureCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting with the Job Comparison Feature
Steps for comparing two different runs of the same job, which is especially useful
        when you notice unexpected changes, such as when you have a job that consistently completes
        within a specific amount of time and then it starts taking longer. Comparing two runs of the
        same job enables you to analyze the performance and differences so that you can troubleshoot
        the cause.
Describes how to compare any two runs of a job using the Job Comparison tool.
                The following procedure uses examples from a Spark engine to explain how to
                further investigate and troubleshoot.noteWhen a job is
                flagged as slow, you can select the slow job from the Slow
                    Jobs widget in the job's engine page and then in the details page,
                click Compare with Previous Run. The job is compared with its
                last run and the results are displayed in the Job Comparison page for you to
                analyze.

Verify that you are logged in to the Workload XM web UI.


In the URL field of a supported web browser, enter the Workload XM URL that
                            you were given by your system administrator and press
                                Enter. 


When the Workload XM Log in page opens, enter your Workload XM user name and password access credentials.


Click Log in.



In the Search field of the Clusters page, enter the name
                    of the cluster whose workloads you want to analyze.

From the time-range list in the Cluster Summary page, select a time period that
                    meets your requirements.

In the Trend widget, select the tab of an engine whose
                    jobs you want to analyze and then click its Total Jobs
                    value. 
The engine's Jobs page opens.

Examine the list of jobs that have executed during the selected time period and
                    manually compare runs of the same job.
For example, as shown in the following image, when manually comparing the last
                    two runs of the Log Processor job we can see that there are
                    duration differences. In this example, the older run had a Task duration skew
                    health issue, which appears to be fixed:



List and display details of all the runs of a specific job of interest by
                    selecting one of the job runs and then in its jobs details page, click the
                        Trends tab.
In the following example, notice how the amount of Input and Output data
                    changes between runs. The Job Comparison tool enables you to examine more
                    details about two runs to determine why the amount of data changed. In this case
                    we will compare a run with no health issues with the last run of the job:



To compare two job runs, select the check boxes adjacent to the job runs you
                    require and then click Compare. 
The Job Comparison page opens displaying more details about each job. 
For this example's comparison, the tabs that contain more information about
                    the job runs are the Structure, SQL
                        Executions, and the Metrics tabs:

noteThe SQL Executions tab
                        is only available for Spark jobs.

Display and compare the sub-jobs executed for both of your selected job runs by
                    selecting the Structure tab.
For example, as shown in the following image, the last run of the job (with
                    health issues) completed in 1minute and 38 seconds and executed 9 sub-jobs and
                    the run that had no health issues took 1 minute and 20 seconds but only executed
                    5 sub-jobs. Clicking any of the listed sub-jobs displays more details.



Display and compare what Spark SQL was run and how long they ran for both of
                    your selected job runs by selecting the SQL Executions
                    tab.
For example, as shown in the following image, more Spark SQL queries were
                    performed on the data in the last job run.



Display and compare what metrics were performed on both of your selected job
                    runs by selecting the Metrics tab.
For example, as shown in the following image, more input records were digested
                    in the last job run.




