Troubleshooting an Abnormal Job DurationCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting an Abnormal Job Duration
Identify areas of risk from jobs running on your cluster that complete within an
        unusual time period.
Describes how to locate and troubleshoot an abnormal job duration.  The
                following procedure uses examples from a Spark engine to explain how to further
                investigate and troubleshoot the cause of an abnormal job duration.

Verify that you are logged in to the Workload XM web UI.


In the URL field of a supported web browser, enter the Workload XM URL that
                            you were given by your system administrator and press
                                Enter. 


When the Workload XM Log in page opens, enter your Workload XM user name and password access credentials.


Click Log in.



In the Clusters page do one of the following:

In the Search field, enter the name of the
                        cluster whose workloads you want to analyze.
From the Cluster Name column, locate and click on
                        the name of the cluster whose workloads you want to analyze.


From the time-range list in the Cluster Summary page, select a time period that
                    meets your requirements.

In the Usage Analysis chart, click the engine whose
                        Failed column displays the number of jobs that did
                    not complete.

Depending on the engine you selected, in the engine's page that opens scroll
                    down to either the Suboptimal Jobs or the
                        Suboptimal Queries chart widget and click the
                        Abnormal Duration health check bar.
The Jobs or Queries page opens, listing all the jobs or queries that have
                    triggered the Abnormal Duration Health check.






tipAny jobs or queries that fall outside of
                        their baseline are counted. You can hover over each bar within the chart to
                        view how many jobs or queries triggered each health check. 


Specify a specific amount of time in which the job either ran less than or more
                    than the Health check rule by either selecting a predefined time duration or
                    selecting Customize and enter the minimum or maximum time
                    period from the Duration list. 






View more details about a job by selecting a job's name from the Job
                    column and then clicking the Health Checks
                    tab. 
The Baseline Health checks are displayed. 

Display more information about the job's duration by selecting
                        Duration from the Baseline
                    section. As shown in the image below.
In the following example, the job finished much slower than the baseline
                    duration, which is the aggregate calculated over multiple jobs.



Compare and analyze this job against other baseline metrics by clicking
                        View all metrics.

Continue to analyze and search for probable causes by doing one or more of the
                    following: 

To display more information about the length of time the processing
                        tasks took within a job, select Task Duration, which
                        opens a panel that describes the health check, displays information about
                        the possible causes, and lists recommended solutions. In the following
                            example, issues arose during Stage-9 of the job
                            due to poor parallelization. The Recommendation section lists items for
                            you to complete that may resolve the problem and the specific outlier
                            tasks that produced the unusual results:


To display more details about an outlier, click the outlier task, which
                        opens the Task Details panel. In the following
                            example, the Task Details show that the outlier task took significantly
                            more time to complete compared to previous runs. In this case, 41
                            minutes as compared to 8 minutes:


To gain more insights about the task's duration, such as checking memory
                        allocation, click the Execution Details tab and then
                        in the Summary panel, click Configurations:


In the Configurations panel, click the Spark
                            Properties tab and search for the memory configuration
                        settings and their values. If memory is less than the recommended value,
                        increasing its value will improve cluster performance: 





