Assigning Uncategorized Resources to a Cost CenterCloudera Docs
Assigning Uncategorized Resources to a Cost Center
Steps for moving unassigned resources into an existing or a new Workload XM cost center.
Describes how to locate and move uncategorized resources into an existing or a new
                Workload XM cost center.noteTo avoid cost
                duplication, resources must only be assigned one cost center.

Verify that you are logged in to the Workload XM web UI.


In the URL field of a supported web browser, enter the Workload XM URL that
                            you were given by your system administrator and press
                                Enter. 


When the Workload XM Log in page opens, enter your Workload XM user name and password access credentials.


Click Log in.



From the Workload XM Navigation side-bar, select
                        Chargeback. 

In the Chargeback page, select a cost center and then a cluster. 

From the Overview tab, scroll down and click inside the
                        Uncategorized section. 
The Uncategorized page opens.  

Select the required uncategorised resource tab.

From either the Pools, Users, or
                        Clusters page, select the check boxes of the
                    resources you require for your cost center. 
The Assign Cost Center button becomes visible.

Click Assign Cost Center. 

From the Select Cost Center list, do one of the
                    following:


To add the uncategorized resource/s in a new cost center, select
                                New Cost Center and then click
                                Create a new cost center. 
To add the uncategorized resource/s in an existing cost center, select
                            an existing cost center and then click Assign to Cost
                                Center. 



(Optional) Repeat steps 4-8 until all your uncategorized resources are placed
                    in your Workload XM cost centers.


Parent topic: Analyzing Your Workload Cluster Costs with Workload XM Cost Centers