Assigning a Workload XM System Admin Access RoleCloudera Docs
Assigning a Workload XM System Admin Access Role 
Steps for assigning a System Admin access role to your Workload XM users. 
Describes how to assign a Workload XM Role Based Access (RBAC) role for
            a system administrator. This access role has full access rights and system administrator
            privileges across all clusters within the Workload XM environment and can
            create your Workload XM Cluster Policies that define your access roles. noteGenerally, only a user assigned the System Admin access role
                can create a Workload XM Cluster Policy. But until the first System Admin
                access role is assigned, a Cluster Policy can only be created by a default systems
                administrator, also known as a default super user. 
This task assumes that you have:
Enabled role based access in Cloudera Manager.
Created a default systems administrator, also known as a default super user, in
                    Cloudera Manager.


In a supported web browser log in to Workload XM as the user with
                    default systems administrator privileges. 

From the Workload XM Navigation side-bar, select Access
                        Management. 

In the Access Management page, click New Cluster Policy. 
The Create Cluster Policy page opens.

Do one or more of the following: 


In the Groups field, enter the name of the LDAP
                            administration group account whose users will be assigned this cluster
                            policy's access role. 
In the Users field, enter the user name or user
                            names who will be assigned this cluster policy's access role. 



From the Assign Roles list, select System
                        Admin. 

Click Create. 

noteWorkload XM will take at least 60 minutes
                        to assign the access role to the user, users, and/or groups provided in the
                        Cluster Policy.


The Successfully created access policy message appears when
            the Cluster Policy is created and the policy is displayed in the Access Management’s
            home page.

Parent topic: Assigning Workload XM Access Roles