Creating a Workload XM Cost CenterCloudera Docs
Creating a Workload XM Cost Center
Create Workload XM cost centers that enable you to display your current
        and historical workload cluster and resource costs that can be used for planning, budgeting,
        and forecasting future workload environments. 
Describes how to configure your Workload XM Chargeback settings, which
            define your cost centers and the unit costs of your resources, and create a Workload XM cost center. noteTo avoid cost
                duplication, resources must only be assigned one cost center. 

Verify that you are logged in to the Workload XM web UI.


In the URL field of a supported web browser, enter the Workload XM URL that
                            you were given by your system administrator and press
                                Enter. 


When the Workload XM Log in page opens, enter your Workload XM user name and password access credentials.


Click Log in.



From the Workload XM Navigation side-bar, select
                        Chargeback. 

Globally define your cost center criteria and memory and CPU costs by clicking
                        Chargeback Setup. 

From the Setup page, do the following: 


From the Select Chargeback criteria section,
                            select your cluster's chargeback criteria. 
noteCost centers are associated with a
                                    specific criteria. If you later change the Chargeback criteria
                                    setting the cost centers associated with the previous selection
                                    are hidden. You can revert back to these cost centers by
                                    reselecting their Chargeback criteria. To revert back to
                                        previous cost centers, from the
                                            Actions list on the Chargeback
                                        page, select Chargeback Settings and
                                        then reselect their criteria option.

From the Cluster list of the Cluster
                                Selection section, select the clusters required for your
                            cost centers. Where, the cost calculations use resource utilization for
                            each of your chosen clusters. 
In the CPU field of the Unit
                                cost section, enter the amount, in dollars, for each CPU
                            core hour. 
In the Memory field of the Unit
                                cost section, enter the amount, in dollars, for each
                            Gigabyte hour. 
Click Complete Setup.



From the Chargeback page, create a new cost center by clicking
                        Create a Cost Center. 


In the Name field, enter a unique name for your
                            cost center. 
(Optional) In the Description field, enter a
                            meaningful description for the cost center. 
Depending on the Chargeback criteria value you selected when you
                            configured your Chargeback settings, do one of the following: 
If you selected Pool, in the
                                        Add Pools field, enter one or
                                    multiple resource pools.
If you selected User, in the
                                        Add Users field, enter one or
                                    multiple users.

Click Create.



Once you have configured your Chargeback settings and created a cost center you can
            view your job costs associated with a cost center cluster. 

Parent topic: Analyzing Your Workload Cluster Costs with Workload XM Cost Centers