Understanding the Workload XM Cluster Services MetricsCloudera Docs
Understanding the Workload XM Cluster Services Metrics
Describes the Workload XM cluster services metrics, which are visually
    displayed in a series of charts that show the state, activity, and performance of the Workload XM cluster services. Accessed from Cloudera Manager they help you monitor the
    health, performance, and workload usage of your Workload XM Cluster Services for
    identifying and troubleshooting existing and potential problems. 
noteThe Workload XM cluster services metrics are viewable in
      Cloudera Manager version 7.5.3 and above. They also require Workload XM version
      2.2.2 or 2.3.0 and the latest version of Telemetry Publisher.
The Workload XM cluster services metric charts are displayed on the Workload XM Cluster and the Workload XM Services pages located in the
      Cloudera Manager Admin Console. For further analysis, each metric chart can be opened to
      display more detailed information.
The metrics displayed are dependent on the selected Workload XM element. But,
      whether you view a chart from the Workload XM Cluster Status
      tab page, the Charts Library tab page, or a Workload XM
      Service's page, the basic functionality works in the same way. 
For example, you can:
Change the size of the chart by dragging it's lower-right corner.
View detailed information about elements of interest in the chart by hovering your mouse
          over the element. When you move your mouse horizontally across the chart, the data values
          will change according to the time represented. 
For additional information, you can enlarge the pop-up window by clicking
            Click to expand. 
When the pop-up window is fully expanded you can view:
The Workload XM service associated with the chart by clicking
                View Service.
Display the chart on its own page by clicking View Entity
                Chart. noteIf the chart displays more than one
                stream of data, the new chart displays only the stream that was
              selected.


For more information about charts in Cloudera Manager, click the Related
        Information link below.
Workload XM Cluster Chart Library Categories 
The Workload XM
Status Page visually displays a limited set of metrics that are based
        on historical Workload XM user payload analysis. 
The Charts Library displays a much larger set of metric charts,
        which are organized into categories.
The following lists the Workload XM Chart Library categories available on the
          Charts Library page, accessed by clicking the Charts Library
        tab: 
Status Page Charts, whose charts display a consolidated view of
            the overall Workload XM cluster metrics. 
Zookeeper Queue, whose charts display the ZooKeeper service
            metrics, including the number of queues and shards for all streams. When the number
              of messages in a Zookeeper queue exceeds the defined threshold limits, a Workload XM health check alert is triggered. For more information about the
              Zookeeper Elevated Queue Count alerts, click the Related
                Information link below.
Counters, whose charts display the number of jobs received and
            the number of jobs that failed. Counter metrics are also separated into Pipeline,
            Analytic Database, and SDX service categories. 
Processing Timers, whose charts display the average job
            processing time and the average rate across servers. They are calculated using the 75th
            and 95th percentiles. Processing Timer metrics are also separated into Pipelines and
            Analytic Database service categories. When less than 75% of the service's audit
              payloads are processing slower than the defined yellow and red timer threshold limits,
              a Workload XM health check alert is triggered. For more information about
              the Slow Payload Processing Timer alerts, click the Related
                Information link below.
Events, whose charts display the number of important and
            informational alerts.


Workload XM Services Categories
The Workload XM Services chart categories are accessed by selecting the Workload XM service in the Status Summary section of the Workload XM
Status page. 
The following lists the Workload XM service's chart categories. As they are
        dependent on the service you are viewing, not all of the following categories will be
          displayed:
Status Page Charts, whose charts display a limited set of Workload XM service's metrics. 
Counters, whose charts display the number of jobs or queries
            received and the number of jobs or queries that failed. 
Processing Timers, whose charts display the average job
            processing time and the average rate across servers. They are calculated using the 75th
            and 95th percentiles. Processing Timer metrics are also separated into Pipelines and
            Analytic Database service categories.
Payload Size, whose histogram charts display the average,
            maximum, minimum, and 75th percentile processing payload sizes.
Process Resources, whose charts display metrics about the
            service's processing resources, such as the amount of resident memory used. 
Host Resources, whose charts display metrics about the
            service's host, which are broken down, depending on the service, into CPU, Memory, Disk
            Aggregates, Disk Comparison, Network Aggregates, Network Interface Comparison, File
            Descriptors, and Entropy categories. 
Liveness, whose chart displays metrics about the service's
            processing performance.
Events, whose charts display the number of important and
            informational alerts 



Related informationUnderstanding the Workload XM Services Health Check AlertsViewing Charts for Cluster, Service, Role, and Host InstancesUnderstanding the Workload XM Services Health Check AlertsDescribes the Workload XM cluster services health check alerts and     thresholds, and what actions are required to resolve the problem.Accessing the Workload XM Cluster Services ChartsDescribes where to view the Workload XM cluster services charts in         Cloudera Manager that show the state, activity, and performance of the Workload XM services.Building Your Own Workload XM Services Metric ChartDescribes the steps to manually build a Workload XM metric chart in         Cloudera Manager using the Cloudera Manager Chart builder and the Workload XM         services metric name.