Defining Workload Views ManuallyCloudera Docs
Defining Workload Views Manually
Steps for manually defining your workload views.
This task describes how to manually define your Workload
            Views.  

Verify that you are logged in to the Workload XM web UI.


In the URL field of a supported web browser, enter the Workload XM URL that
                            you were given by your system administrator and press
                                Enter. 


When the Workload XM Log in page opens, enter your Workload XM user name and password access credentials.


Click Log in.



In the Search field of the Clusters page, enter the name
                    of the cluster whose workloads you want to analyze.

From the time-range list in the Cluster Summary page, select a time period that
                    meets your requirements.






From the navigation panel, select Workloads.

In the Workloads page, click Manual:





The Define Workload View widget opens, where you define
                    a set of criteria that enables you to analyze a specific set of queries. 
For example, as shown in the image below, you can list the total amount of
                    failed queries, as a percentage, from a specific engine that are subject to a
                    two second SLA. 
Where, as defined by the criteria condition, Workload XM will
                    monitor all query jobs from the Impala engine. When the
                    total query execution time exceeds 2 seconds, as defined by the SLA condition,
                    for 90 percent of these queries, as defined by the Warning Threshold, the
                    workload is flagged with a failed state: 



(Optional) To display a summary of the queries matching your criteria, click
                        Preview. Which displays the date range, the number of
                    queries that match the criteria, and the number of queries that missed the SLA
                    condition.

When you are satisfied with the results, click
                    Save.
The Workloads page opens and your workload view appears in the
                        Workload column.



tipWhen you have a long list of Workload
                        views, sorting the Workload column alphabetically in
                        ascending or descending order by clicking the up or down arrows, helps
                        locate the workload.


(Optional) To view more information about the workloads using the view's
                    formula, open the Summary page by clicking the name of the workload view in the
                        Workload column, which visually displays the view's
                    details as chart widgets that you can use to further analyze the results.
The following examples, display how this group of queries are meeting the
                    Workload view's SLA in the Trend chart, where:


The Count tab, displays the number of executing
                            queries, either By Status or By
                                Statement Type. To view further details, click the
                                Total Queries, the Failed
                                Queries, or the Query Active Time
                            value. 


The Concurrency tab (which is not available for
                            CDP), displays the number of queries executing concurrently. In the
                                following example, the maximum concurrency for this view is
                                    328. This indicates that for the queries
                                monitored by this view, 328 queries accessed the same data at the
                                same time during the specified time period. The graph view displays
                                how the concurrency fluctuates over the date range specified for the
                                workload view. 






Parent topic: Classifying Workloads for Analysis with Workload Views