Troubleshooting Failed JobsCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting Failed Jobs
Steps for troubleshooting incomplete jobs running on your cluster. 
Describes how to locate and troubleshoot jobs that have failed to complete. The
                following procedure uses examples from a Spark engine to explain how to further
                investigate and troubleshoot the root cause of an uncompleted job

Verify that you are logged in to the Workload XM web UI.


In the URL field of a supported web browser, enter the Workload XM URL that
                            you were given by your system administrator and press
                                Enter. 


When the Workload XM Log in page opens, enter your Workload XM user name and password access credentials.


Click Log in.



In the Clusters page do one of the following:

In the Search field, enter the name of the
                        cluster whose workloads you want to analyze.
From the Cluster Name column, locate and click on
                        the name of the cluster whose workloads you want to analyze.


From the time-range list in the Cluster Summary page, select a time period that
                    meets your requirements.

In the Usage Analysis chart widget, notice which
                    engine's are displaying Failed jobs and then from the
                        Trend widget, select the tab of an engine whose
                    failed jobs you wish to analyze and then click its Total
                        Jobs value.
The engine's Jobs page opens.

From the Health Check list, select Failed to
                        Finish, which filters the list to display a list of jobs that
                    did not complete.

To view more details about why a job failed to complete, from the
                        Job column select a job's name. The job's page opens
                    displaying information about the job you selected and where the failure
                    happened. 






From the Failures section, in the Diagnostic
                        Information column, click More.
The Diagnostic Information dialog box opens, which describes more details
                    about why the job aborted. In the following example's case, the job was aborted
                    whilst writing rows due to an out of bounds java exception:



Click Close, to close the dialog box.

To display more information about the stage where the job failed, in this case
                    the Stage-2 process, in the Failing
                        from column, click the stage's link. Or select the
                        Execution Details tab and then click the failed
                    stage's link.
In the following example's Summary panel, it shows that Task 0 was attempted 4
                    times: 



To display more information about all the failed attempts, in the
                        Summary panel, click the
                        Failed task value.
In the following example, the job aborted when Task 0
                    was writing rows. To understand more about what triggered the
                        SparkException error message and to further troubleshoot
                    the root cause, you can open the associated log file by clicking Full
                        error log. 




