Assigning a Workload XM Cluster User Access RoleCloudera Docs
Assigning a Workload XM Cluster User Access Role
Steps for assigning a Cluster User access role to your Workload XM users. 
Describes how to assign a Workload XM Role Based Access (RBAC) role for
            a cluster user. noteOnly a user assigned the System Admin access
                role can create a Workload XM Cluster Policy. 

In a supported web browser log in to Workload XM as a user that has
                    been granted the System Admin access role.

From the Workload XM Navigation side-bar, select Access
                        Management. 

In the Access Management page, click New Cluster Policy. 
The Create Cluster Policy page opens.

Do one or more of the following: 


In the Groups field, enter the name of the LDAP
                            group account whose users will be assigned this cluster policy's access
                            role.
In the Users field, enter the user name or user
                            names who will be assigned this cluster policy's access role.



From the Assign Roles list, select Cluster
                        User. 

From the Cluster list, select the name of the cluster
                    that will be assigned to this policy’s access role.

(Optional) Enable the user or users defined in this cluster policy to view
                    executed workloads from other users or executed workloads from a pool by doing
                    the following: 


In the Users field, enter the user name or user
                            names whose jobs and queries can be viewed by the user or users defined
                            in this cluster policy.
In the Pools field, enter the pool name or pool
                            names whose jobs and queries can be viewed by the user or users defined
                            in this cluster policy. 



Click Create. 

noteWorkload XM will take at least 60 minutes
                        to assign the access role to the user, users, and/or groups provided in the
                        Cluster Policy.


The Successfully created access policy message appears when
            the Cluster Policy is created and the policy is displayed in the Access Management’s
            home page.

Parent topic: Assigning Workload XM Access Roles