Understanding the Workload XM Access RolesCloudera Docs
Understanding the Workload XM Access Roles
Describes the Workload XM access roles.
importantCustomers are responsible for managing and reviewing
   access credentials for their Workload XM accounts and activities. All user privileges
   and access rights should periodically be reviewed and monitored, including who should access Workload XM, its services, and components. For example, access rights should be reviewed
   when a user moves to another business unit. 
Workload XM supports cluster privilege roles that define Workload XM
   users as a:
System Admin
Cluster Admin
Cluster User
 The following tables describe these cluster privilege roles, also known as access roles: 
System Admin Access Role
An authentic Workload XM user who is assigned the System
     Admin access role has full access rights and system administrator privileges across
    all clusters within the Workload XM environment. Where they can view, edit, and
    create cost centers, view, edit, and create auto actions, and view all the jobs and queries in
    all the Workload clusters. These users have the least restrictive access permissions. 
Table 1. System Admin

Resource
Actions



Access Management page
View and manage all the Workload XM cluster policies and user access from
        the Access Management page


Cluster


View all the workload clusters on the Clusters page
Rename a workload cluster
Delete a workload cluster




Workloads


Create workloads
View all the workloads in a cluster
Update all the workloads in a cluster
Delete all the workloads in a cluster




Queries
View all the queries in all the clusters of the Workload XM
        environment


Jobs
View all the jobs in all the clusters of the Workload XM
        environment


Chargeback


Create cost centers
Update cost centers
List cost centers
Delete cost centers
View all the Chargeback related dashboards




Auto Actions


Create auto actions
View auto actions
Update auto actions
Disable auto actions
Delete auto actions
Enable an auto action email





Cluster Admin Access Role
An authentic Workload XM user who is assigned the Cluster
     Admin access role has full access rights and cluster administrator privileges
    across an assigned cluster within the Workload XM environment. Where they can view
    all the jobs and queries in the assigned Workload cluster.
Table 2. Cluster Admin

Resource
Actions



Cluster


View the assigned Workload cluster on the Clusters page
Rename the Workload cluster
Delete the Workload cluster




Workloads


Create workloads
View all workloads in the assigned cluster
Update all workloads in the assigned cluster
Delete all workloads in the assigned cluster




Queries
View all the queries in the assigned cluster


Jobs
View all the jobs in the assigned cluster



Cluster User Access Role
An authentic Workload XM user who is assigned the Cluster
     User access role has limited access rights across an assigned cluster within the
     Workload XM environment. Where they can view only those jobs and queries they
    created and executed in the assigned Workload cluster.
Table 3. Cluster User

Resource
Actions



Cluster
View their assigned cluster on the Clusters page.


Workloads
View their assigned workloads on the Workloads page


Queries
View their queries in the assigned cluster


Jobs
View their jobs in the assigned cluster


The Cluster User access role type has the most restricted access
    permissions, where the user may only view their own jobs and queries. 
This access role further restricts the Cluster User to one cluster per policy. For users who
    are responsible for jobs and queries in more than one cluster they must also be assigned access
    rights to those clusters. You can either add them to the Cluster Policy for that cluster or
    include the pool that contains those workloads in the Cluster Policy in which they are assigned. 
Also, for users who require access to jobs and queries executed by other users, you can create
    a Custom Policy as part of the Cluster Policy. This policy includes the user names of the users
    who execute those jobs and queries and/or the pool names in which they are executed. 
For example, though user A and user B have been granted the same Cluster User role type their
    access to jobs and queries is different. This is due to the conditions of the Cluster Policy in
    which they are assigned. Where: 
The cluster policy that defines user A’s Cluster User role type does not permit the user to
      view workloads within a pool or view other user workloads. In this case, user A is restricted
      to only view their own jobs and queries within their policy’s assigned cluster. 
The cluster policy that defines user B’s Cluster User role type contains a Custom Policy
      that permits the user to view workloads within a pool and view other user workloads. In this
      case, user B can view the jobs and queries executed by other users and the jobs and queries
      executed in the pool. 



Parent topic: Assigning Access Roles in Workload XM