Managing Your Workload XM Access RolesCloudera Docs
Managing Your Workload XM Access Roles
Describes how to manage your Workload XM cluster policies and access
    roles.
Information about your Workload XM Cluster Policies are displayed on the Access
      Management page, which are viewed and managed by the user with the System Admin access role. 
Each row displays a Cluster Policy and its conditions, where: 
The Status column displays the state of the policy, as either
            Enabled or Disabled.
The Clusters column displays the name of the cluster assigned to
          the Workload XM access role. 
The Role column displays the Workload XM access role
          type.
The Groups column displays the LDAP group users who are assigned
          the Cluster Policy's access role.
The Users column displays the user names who are assigned the
          Cluster Policy's access role.
The Custom Policy column displays the user and pool filter
          conditions.
The Last Updated column displays the date when the policy was
          last updated.
The Actions column's vertical ellipses, when selected, lists the
          management tasks that can be performed.

The following management tasks are performed from the Access Management home page by a user
      with the System Admin access role, which is accessed by selecting Access
        Management from the Workload XM Navigation side-bar.
Updating a Cluster Policy
In the Access Management page, click the cluster policy’s vertical ellipsis in the
          Actions column, and select Edit. In the
        Cluster Policy, make your changes and then click Update. 

Deleting a Cluster Policy
In the Access Management page, click the cluster policy's vertical ellipsis in the
          Actions column, and select Delete. In the
        confirmation message, click OK to confirm the action. The policy is
        permanently removed. tipCloudera recommends disabling
          rather than deleting a Cluster Policy.

Disabling a Cluster Policy
In the Access Management page, click the cluster policy's vertical ellipsis in the
          Actions column, and select Disable. In the
        confirmation message, click OK to confirm the action. The
          Status column displays the state of the policy as
          Disabled. 


Parent topic: Assigning Access Roles in Workload XM