Configuring a Default Systems Administrator for Workload XMCloudera Docs
Configuring a Default Systems Administrator for Workload XM
Pre-tasks that are required before you can start enabling role based access in Workload XM. 
Describes how to enable role based access in Workload XM and configure a
                Workload XM default systems administrator. Before you can assign
                access roles in Workload XM you must first enable role based access and
                configure a default systems administrator. Both tasks are completed in Cloudera
                Manager. Once configured, the default administrator (also known as a superuser) can
                log into the Workload XM UI and assign the System Admin access policy
                role to one or more users. 

In a supported web browser on the Workload XM on-premises cluster,
                    log in to Cloudera Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters,
                        WXM, and then click the
                        Configuration tab. 

In the Configuration page, search for the Role Based Access
                        enabled property and then select its WXM
                        (Service-Wide) check box. 

According to your requirements, do one of the following: 

In the WXM (Service Wide) field of the
                                WXM Default Super Users property, enter
                            either the user name or the account name of a system administrator who
                            is to be granted access to perform administration tasks in Workload XM. By default, admin. tipIf the WXM (Service Wide) field is
                                not displayed, click the plus sign circle icon.
In the WXM (Service Wide) field of the
                                WXM Default Super Groups property, enter the
                            group account name of your LDAP admin group. For example, admin_grp.
                        
 The following image shows the configuration properties:



Click Save Changes.

Navigate to the top of the Workload XM service page and from the
                        Actions menu,  restart the Workload XM
                    service, by selecting Restart.


Parent topic: Assigning Access Roles in Workload XM