Installing in internet environmentCloudera Docs
Installing in internet environment
Follow the steps in this topic to install CDP Private Cloud.


Ensure that your Kubernetes kubeconfig has permissions to
                    create Kubernetes namespaces.
You require persistent storage classes defined in your OpenShift cluster.
                    Storage classes can be defined by OpenShift cluster administrators.
Only TLS-enabled custom Docker Registry is supported. Ensure that you use a TLS
                    certificate to secure the custom Docker Registry. The TLS certificate can be
                    self-signed, or signed by a private or public trusted Certificate Authority
                    (CA).
Only TLS 1.2 is supported for authentication with Active Directory/LDAP. You
                    require TLS 1.2 to authenticate the CDP control plane with your LDAP directory
                    service like Active Directory.
OCP network configurations that restrict pod communication are not supported.
                    For example, multi-tenancy isolation with network
                        policy is not supported. 



In Cloudera Manager, on the top right corner, click Add
                    > Add Cluster. The Select Cluster
                        Type page appears.






On the Select Cluster Type page, select the cluster type
                    as Private Cloud Containerized Cluster. Under
                        Other Options, click here to
                    install CDP Private Cloud Data Services, then click
                        Continue.






On the Getting Started page of the installation wizard,
                    select Internet as the Install Method. To use a custom
                    repository link provided to you by Cloudera, click Custom
                        Repository. Click Next.




note

Verify the prerequisites for the version that you’re installing and
                                then click Next.
You can also apply a template that you may have downloaded during a
                                previous installation. The template contains all the installation
                                configurations. Click Apply Previously Download Template to browse
                                and upload a template stored on your machine.




On the Configure Docker Repository page, you must select
                    one of the Docker repository options. If you select Use a custom
                        Docker Repository option, enter your local Docker Repository in
                    the Custom Docker Repository field in the following format:[*DOCKER
                        REGISTRY*]/[*REPOSITORY NAME*]. Alternatively, you can use
                    Cloudera's default Docker Repository if you are setting up CDP Private Cloud in
                    non-production environments.

note

Use a custom Docker Repository - Copies all
                                images (Internet or Air Gapped) to the embedded registry
Use Cloudera’s default Docker Repository -
                                Copies images from Internet to the embedded registry. This uses the
                                default repository that is in manifest.json. Use
                                    Cloudera’s default Docker Repository option can be
                                selected only if you have selected Internet as the install
                                method.



You can follow these steps to prepare your Docker Repository from a machine
                    that is running Docker locally and has access to all the Docker images either
                    directly from Cloudera or a local HTTP mirror in your network.


Click Generate the copy-docker script on the
                            wizard or download the script file. 


Log in to your custom Docker Registry and run the script using the
                            following commands.

docker login <your_custom_registry> -u <user_with_write_access>
bash copy-docker.txt
noteThis command downloads 100+ Docker images and it will take some
                                time to download.



Enter your Docker user name and password.


Click Choose File to upload your Docker
                            certificate.


Click Next.













On the Configure Databases page, click
                        Next. 







On the Configure Kubernetes page, enter your Kubernetes,
                    Docker, database, and vault information.


Upload a Kubernetes configuration (kubeconfig) file from your existing
                            environment. You can obtain this file from your OpenShift Container
                            Platform administrator. Ensure that this kubeconfig has permissions to
                            create Kubernetes namespaces.


In the Kubernetes Namespace field, enter the
                            Kubernetes namespace that you want to use with this CDP Private Cloud
                            deployment. Kubernetes virtual clusters are called namespaces. For more
                            information, see Kubernetes namespaces


Enter your Vault information and upload a CA certificate. Cloudera
                            recommends that you use an external Vault for production environments.
                            Enter the Vault address and token, and upload a CA certificate.


Enter a Storage Class to be configured on the
                            Kubernetes cluster. CDP Private Cloud uses Persistent Volumes to
                            provision storage. You can leave this field empty if you have a default
                            storage class configured on your Openshift cluster. Click
                                Continue.


Under the Additional
                                Certificates section, click Choose
                                File and add the SSL certificate for your HMS database
                            (MariaDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, or Oracle). For Cloudera Data Warehouse, it
                            is mandatory to secure the network connection between the default
                            Database Catalog Hive MetaStore (HMS) in CDW and the relational database
                            hosting the base cluster’s HMS.








If you want to use this installation configuration again to install CDP Private
                    Cloud, you have the option to download this information as a template.




The template file is a text file that contains the database and vault
                        information that you entered for this installation. This template is useful
                        if you will be installing Private Cloud again with the same databases, as
                        the template will populate the fields here automatically. Note that the user
                        password information is not saved in the template.


The Installation Progress page appears. When the
                    installation is complete, click Next.






The summary message with a link to Launch CDP
                    appears.








Click Launch CDP to launch your CDP Private Cloud.
Log in using the default user name and password admin.
In the Welcome to CDP Private Cloud page, click
                        Change Password to change the Local Administrator
                    Account password.
Set up external authentication using the URL of the LDAP server and a CA
                    certificate of your secure LDAP. Follow the instructions on the
                        Welcome to CDP Private Cloud page to complete this
                    step. 
Click Test Connection to ensure that you are able to
                    connect to the configured LDAP server.
Register a CDP Private Cloud
                        environment
Create your first Virtual Warehouse in the
                        CDW Data Services
Provision an ML Workspace in the CML Data
                        Services



Parent topic: Installation on the OpenShift Container Platform (OCP)