CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment considerationsCloudera Docs
CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment considerations
You must understand the deployment requirements to sufficiently provision node
        counts, CPU, memory, and other hardware resources required to install CDP Private
        Cloud.
The CDP Private Cloud Data Services are installed on the OpenShift
            Cluster and run on the provisioned worker nodes. CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment consists of a Private
            Cloud Management Console and one or more environments that are created for deploying the
            Data Services. The Management Console is a service used by CDP administrators to manage
            environments, users, and services.
The worker node hardware requirements are described below. The number of worker nodes
            needed depends on factors such as the number of virtual warehouses or machine learning
            workspaces required for your workloads. The recommendation here is a guideline for a
            basic CDP Private Cloud Data Services installation. For hardware
            sizing in production environments, contact Cloudera Support or your Cloudera Account
            Team.


Component
Minimum
Recommended



Node Count
10
20


CPU
16
32 +


Memory
128 GB
384 GB


Storage
2 TB (SATA)
4 TB (SSD/NVMe)


Network Bandwidth
1 Gbps guaranteed bandwidth (minimum) dedicated to every CDP Private
                            Cloud Base node
10 Gbps guaranteed bandwidth (minimum) dedicated to every CDP Private
                            Cloud Base node


important

You must be a Cluster System Admin Host for OpenShift system
                    administration.
You need the bootstrap node for the initial installation. It can be converted
                    into an OpenShift worker after initial deployment.


To know about architecture, design choices, and deployment guidelines to use CDP Private Cloud Data Services with Dell EMC and Intel
            Infrastructure, and Cisco Intelligent Data Platform, see Dell EMC and Intel Infrastructure Guide for Cloudera
                Data Platform Private Cloud and Cisco Data Intelligence Platform on Cisco UCS C240 M5
                with Cloudera Data Platform Private Cloud Plus Design Guide.

Parent topic: CDP Private Cloud Data Services Hardware Requirements