CML software requirements for Private CloudCloudera Docs
CML software requirements for Private Cloud 
To launch the Cloudera Machine Learning service, the Private Cloud host must meet
        several software requirements. Review the following CML-specific software
        requirements.
Requirements
If necessary, contact your Administrator to make sure the following requirements are
        satisfied: 
If you are using OpenShift, the installed OpenShift Container Platform must be version
            4.10 or 4.8 [(Upgrade from 1.4.x to 1.5.0, no fresh install). For ECS, refer to the
            Hardware and Software Requirements section in Installing and Managing a Private Cloud
            Experience Cluster 1.5.0.
CML assumes it has cluster-admin privileges on the cluster. 
Storage:
1.5 TB of persistent volume block storage per ML Workspace.
1 TB of NFS space recommended per Workspace (depending on user files).
Access to NFS storage is routable from all pods running in the cluster.
For monitoring, recommended volume size is 60 GB.

On OCP, CephFS is used as the underlying storage provisioner for any new internal
            workspace on PVC 1.5.0. A storage class named ocs-storagecluster-cephfs
            with csi driver set to "openshift-storage.cephfs.csi.ceph.com" must exist in the cluster
            for new internal workspaces to get provisioned.
A block storage class must be marked as default in the cluster. This may be
              rook-ceph-block, Portworx, or another storage system. Confirm the
            storage class by listing the storage classes (run oc get sc) in the
            cluster, and check that one of them is marked default.
If external NFS is used, the NFS directory and assumed permissions must be those of
            the cdsw user. For details see Using an External NFS Server in
            the Related information section at the bottom of this page.
If CML needs access to a database on the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster, then the user
            must be authenticated using Kerberos and must have Ranger policies set up to allow
            read/write operations to the default (or other specified) database.
Ensure that Kerberos is enabled for all services in the cluster. Custom Kerberos
            principals are not currently supported. For more information, see Enabling Kerberos for
            authentication.
Forward and reverse DNS must be working.
DNS lookups to sub-domains and the ML Workspace itself should work. 
In DNS, wildcard subdomains (such as *.cml.yourcompany.com) must be
            set to resolve to the master domain (such as cml.yourcompany.com). The
            TLS certificate (if TLS is used) must also include the wildcard subdomains. When a
            session or job is started, an engine is created for it, and the engine is assigned to a
            random, unique subdomain.
The external load balancer server timeout needs to be set to 5 min. Without this,
            creating a project in an ML workspace with git clone or with the API
            may result in API timeout errors. For workarounds, see Known Issue
            DSE-11837.
If you intend to access a workspace over https, see Deploy an ML Workspace with
              Support for TLS.
For non-TLS ML workspaces, websockets need to be allowed for port 80 on the external
            load balancer.
Only a TLS-enabled custom Docker Registry is supported. Ensure that you use a TLS
            certificate to secure the custom Docker Registry. The TLS certificate can be
            self-signed, or signed by a private or public trusted Certificate Authority (CA).
On OpenShift, due to a Red Hat issue with OpenShift Container Platform
            4.3.x, the image registry cluster operator configuration must be set to
              Managed.
Check if storage is set up in the cluster image registry operator. See Known Issues
            DSE-12778 for further information. 

For more information on requirements, see CDP Private Cloud Base Installation
        Guide.


Parent topic: CDP Private Cloud Data Services Software Requirements