Installing in air gap environmentCloudera Docs
Installing in air gap environment
You can launch the Private Cloud installation wizard from Cloudera Manager and follow
        the steps to install CDP Private Cloud Data Services in an air gap
        environment where your Cloudera Manager instance or your Kubernetes cluster does not have
        access to the Internet.


Ensure that your Kubernetes kubeconfig has permissions to
                    create Kubernetes namespaces.
You require persistent storage classes defined in your OpenShift cluster.
                    Storage classes can be defined by OpenShift cluster administrators.
Only TLS-enabled custom Docker Registry is supported. Ensure that you use a TLS
                    certificate to secure the custom Docker Registry. The TLS certificate can be
                    self-signed, or signed by a private or public trusted Certificate Authority
                    (CA).
Only TLS 1.2 is supported for authentication with Active Directory/LDAP. You
                    require TLS 1.2 to authenticate the CDP control plane with your LDAP directory
                    service like Active Directory.
OCP network configurations that restrict pod communication are not supported.
                    For example, multi-tenancy isolation with network
                        policy is not supported. 


If this Cloudera Manager instance or your Kubernetes
            cluster does not have connectivity to https://archive.cloudera.com/p/cdp-pvc-ds/, you must mirror the Cloudera
            archive URL using a local HTTP server.

In Cloudera Manager, on the top right corner, click Add
                    > Add Cluster. The Select Cluster
                        Type page appears.






On the Select Cluster Type page, select the cluster type
                    as Private Cloud Containerized Cluster. Under
                        Other Options, click here to
                    install CDP Private Cloud Data Services. Click
                    Continue.






On the Getting Started page of the installation wizard,
                    select Air Gapped as the Install Method. When you select
                    the Air Gapped install option, extra steps are displayed.
                    Follow these steps to download and mirror the Cloudera archive URL using a local
                    HTTP server. 



Download everything under https://archive.cloudera.com/p/cdp-pvc-ds/latest
wget -l 0 --recursive --no-parent -e robots=off -nH --cut-dirs=2 --reject="index.html*" -t 10 https://<username>:<password>@archive.cloudera.com/p/cdp-pvc-ds/latest


Edit the manifest.json file in the downloaded
                                directory. Change "http_url": "..." to
"http_url":
                                    "http://your_local_repo/cdp-pvc-ds/latest"


Mirror the downloaded directory to your local http server, e.g.
                                    http://your_local_repo/cdp-pvc-ds/latest


Click Custom Repository and add
                                    http://your_local_repo/cdp-pvc-ds/latest as a
                                custom repository. 

Click the Select Repository drop-down and select
                                http://your_local_repo/cdp-pvc-ds/latest
Click Next. 






noteYou can also apply a template that you may have downloaded during a
                        previous installation. The template contains all the installation
                        configurations. Click Apply Previously Download
                            Template to browse and upload a template stored on your
                        machine.


On the Configure Docker Repository page, you must select
                    one of the Docker repository options. If you select Use a custom
                        Docker Repository option, then enter your local Docker
                    Repository in the Custom Docker Repository field in the following
                        format:[*DOCKER REGISTRY*]/[*REPOSITORY NAME*].
                    Alternatively, you can use Cloudera's default Docker Repository if you are
                    setting up CDP Private Cloud in non-production environments.

note

Use a custom Docker Repository - Copies all
                                images (Internet or Air Gapped) to the embedded registry
Use Cloudera’s default Docker Repository -
                                Copies images from Internet to the embedded registry. This uses the
                                default repository that is in manifest.json. Use
                                    Cloudera’s default Docker Repository option can be
                                selected only if you have selected Internet as the install
                                method.



You can follow these steps to prepare your Docker Repository from a machine
                    that is running Docker locally and has access to all the Docker images either
                    directly from Cloudera or a local HTTP mirror in your network.


Click Generate the copy-docker script on the
                            wizard or download the script file. 


Log in to your custom Docker Registry and run the script using the
                            following commands.

docker login <your_custom_registry> -u <user_with_write_access>
                                bash copy-docker.txt
noteThis command downloads 100+ Docker images and it will take some
                                time to download.



Enter your Docker user name and password.


Click Choose File to upload your Docker
                            certificate.


Click Continue.








If you select Use an embedded Docker Repository
                        option, then you can download and deploy the Data Services that you need for
                        your cluster. 
By selecting Default, all the data services
                                will be downloaded and deployed. 
By selecting Select the optional images: 
If you switch off the Machine
                                            Learning toggle key, then the Machine
                                        Learning runtimes will not be installed.
If you switch on the Machine Learning
                                        toggle key, then the Machine Learning runtimes will be
                                        installed. 











Click Continue.


On the Configure Databases page, click
                        Next. 







On the Configure Kubernetes page, enter your Kubernetes,
                    Docker, database, and vault information.


Upload a Kubernetes configuration (kubeconfig) file from your existing
                            environment. You can obtain this file from your OpenShift Container
                            Platform administrator. Ensure that this kubeconfig has permissions to
                            create Kubernetes namespaces.


In the Kubernetes Namespace field, enter the
                            Kubernetes namespace that you want to use with this CDP Private Cloud
                            deployment. Kubernetes virtual clusters are called namespaces. For more
                            information, see Kubernetes namespaces


Enter your Vault information and upload a CA certificate. Cloudera
                            recommends that you use an external Vault for production environments.
                            Enter the Vault address and token, and upload a CA certificate.


Enter a Storage Class to be configured on the
                            Kubernetes cluster. CDP Private Cloud uses Persistent Volumes to
                            provision storage. You can leave this field empty if you have a default
                            storage class configured on your Openshift cluster. Click
                                Continue.








If you want to use this installation configuration again to install CDP Private
                    Cloud, you have the option to download this information as a template.




The template file is a text file that contains the database and vault
                        information that you entered for this installation. This template is useful
                        if you will be installing Private Cloud again with the same databases, as
                        the template will populate the fields here automatically. Note that the user
                        password information is not saved in the template.


The Installation Progress page appears. Click
                        Continue.






The summary message with a link to Launch CDP
                    appears.








Click Launch CDP to launch your CDP Private Cloud Data Services.
Log in using the default user name and password
                        admin/admin.
In the Welcome to CDP Private Cloud page, click
                        Change Password to change the Local Administrator
                    Account password.
Set up external authentication using the URL of the LDAP server and a CA
                    certificate of your secure LDAP. Follow the instructions on the
                        Welcome to CDP Private Cloud page to complete this
                    step. 
Click Test Connection to ensure that you can connect to
                    the configured LDAP server.
Register a CDP Private Cloud Data Services environment.
Create your first Virtual Warehouse in the
                        CDW Data Services and/or Provision an ML Workspace in the CML Data
                        Services.



Parent topic: Installation on the OpenShift Container Platform (OCP)