CDP Private Cloud Base requirementsCloudera Docs
CDP Private Cloud Base requirements
Your CDP Private Cloud Base cluster must have the operating
    system, JDK, database, CDP components, and CDP Runtime version required to install CDP Private Cloud Data Services. 
Operating system, JDK, and database:

See CDP Private Cloud Base Requirements and Supported
          Versions

The PostgreSQL database instance must be configured to accept inbound TLS requests to the
            Hive Metastore database. A TLS connection is required when initiated from CDW in
            OpenShift.
CDP Runtime components (services):

Hive Metastore (HMS)
Ranger
Atlas
HDFS
Ozone
YARN
Kafka
Solr

Additionally, do the following:

Set up Kerberos on these clusters using an Active Directory.
Enable TLS on the Cloudera Manager cluster for communication with components and
        services.
Ensure that the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster is on the same
        network as the OpenShift cluster.
Configure PostgreSQL database as an external database for the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster components.
Configure the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster hostnames to be forward and
        reverse resolvable in DNS from the OpenShift cluster.
Allow websocket traffic and https traffic when you use a load
        balancer with the OpenShift external API.
Ensure hive user is able to create and list an Ozone bucket. For
        information about creating and listing ozone bucket, see Managing buckets.

You can use the CDP Management Console to create one or more environments. These
      environments can be associated with any of the Data Lake from the CDP Private Cloud Base clusters. The CDP Private Cloud Base Cloudera Manager deploys the CDP Management
      Console. 
Cloudera currently does not support associating an environment with many CDP Private Cloud Base cluster installations.

Related informationManaging bucketsPreparing CDP Private Cloud BaseUse Cloudera Manager to configure your CDP Private Cloud Base         in preparation for the CDP Private Cloud Data Services         installation.Parent topic: Requirements