Main Use CasesCloudera Docs
Main Use Cases
Learn about  the main use cases of SRM.
Apache Kafka has become an essential component of enterprise data pipelines and is used for
      tracking clickstream event data, collecting logs, gathering metrics, and being the enterprise
      data bus in a microservices based architectures. Kafka supports internal replication to
      support data availability within a cluster. However with Kafka based applications becoming
      critical, enterprises require that the data availability and durability guarantees span entire
      cluster and site failures.
Replication of data across clusters and sites is key for the following use cases:
Disaster Recovery 
Common enterprise use cases for cross-cluster replication is for guaranteeing business
            continuity in the presence of cluster or data center-wide outages. 
Aggregation for Analytics
Aggregate data from multiple streaming pipelines possibly across multiple data centers
            to run batch analytics jobs that provide a holistic view across the enterprise.
Data Deployment after Analytics
This is the opposite of the aggregation use case in which the data generated by the
            analytics application in one cluster (say the aggregate cluster) is broadcast to
            multiple clusters possibly across data centers for end user consumption.
Isolation
Due to performance or security reasons, data needs to be replicated between different
            environments to isolate access. In many deployments the ingestion cluster is isolated
            from the consumption clusters.
Geo Proximity
In geographically distributed access patterns where low latency is required,
            replication is used to move data closer to the access location.
Cloud Migration
As more enterprises have an on-premise and cloud presence, Kafka replication can be
            used to migrate data to the public or private cloud and back.
Legal and Compliance 
Much like the isolation uses case, a policy driven replication is used to limit what
            data is accessible in a cluster to meet legal and compliance requirements.


