Streams Replication Manager ServiceCloudera Docs
Streams Replication Manager Service
The Streams Replication Manager Service is responsible for processing the metrics
    produced by the Streams Replication Manager Drivers. Additionally, it provides a queryable REST
    API that you can use to monitor and track replications.
Streams Replication Manager Driver roles (SRM Driver) produce raw metrics into the target
      Kafka clusters. Each replication has a separate raw metric topic. Streams Replication Manager
      Service roles (SRM Service) run a Kafka Streams application internally, which aggregates the
      raw metrics. The Streams application ensures that the metrics processing work is load balanced
      between the SRM Service instances of the same cluster, and that the members of the cluster can
      coordinate when serving REST API queries.

As a result of this architecture, the SRM Service can only report on replication flows
      targeting the Kafka cluster which is targeted by the SRM Service.
Multi cluster targeting
The SRM Service is capable of targeting multiple Kafka clusters. In this case, an SRM
        Service instance spins up a Kafka Streams application for each target Kafka cluster. This
        way, the SRM Service is able to report on all replication flows targeting any of the
        configured target clusters.

Remote Querying
An SRM Service cluster can be configured to target and gather metrics from multiple
        clusters (multi cluster targeting). However, a setup like this can result in heavily loaded
        Service roles, which might not be suitable for your deployment. To circumvent this issue,
        the SRM Service is capable of connecting to and communicating with other, remote SRM
        Services to fetch their metrics. This is called Remote Querying. Using Remote Querying makes
        it possible to designate an SRM Service cluster in your deployment to act as a monitoring
        gateway. The designated SRM Service cluster then can be used to monitor all clusters and
        replications in your deployment. For more information, see Remote Querying.
      

Using the SRM Service REST API
The SRM Service offers a Swagger UI for exploring and querying the REST API. For a
        user-friendly UI solution, Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) can be integrated with SRM. When
        SMM is configured to connect to SRM, the Replications page becomes available on the SMM UI.
        This page displays the information available on the SRM Service REST API. For more
        information on how you can integrate the two services see Configuring SMM for
          monitoring Kafka cluster replications.


Related informationConfiguring SMM for monitoring Kafka cluster replicationsRemote QueryingRemote Querying in Streams Replication Manager (SRM) refers to the SRM Service's     capability of querying other, remote SRM Services to fetch the remote cluster replication     metrics. This allows users to monitor all replications of a deployment that has multiple     instances of SRM through a single SRM Service.Parent topic: Streams Replication Manager Architecture