Enabling dynamic child creation in weight modeCloudera Docs
Enabling dynamic child creation in weight mode
In the weight resource allocation mode, when you enable dynamic child creation for a
        queue, it becomes a parent queue that can have both static and dynamic child queues. You can
        enable that feature through the YARN Queue Manager UI.

In the weight mode, there is no Managed Parent Queue. When you enable the dynamic
                child creation feature for a queue, it becomes a parent queue that can have both
                static and dynamic child queues simultaneously. If this feature is not enabled, the
                queue can only have static child queues.
In contrast to Manage Parent Queue where the dynamic queue nesting level is limited
                to one, in weight mode, auto dynamic child creation allows you to create 2-level
                dynamic queues.
By default dynamic child queues are deleted automatically 5 minutes after the last
                job finished on them. You can disable this feature using the Capacity
                    Scheduler Auto Queue Deletion YARN property. For more information,
                see Disabling Auto Queue Deletion.


In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN Queue Manager
                    UI.
A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the
                        Overview tab.

Find the queue for which you want to enable the auto dynamic child creation
                    feature.

Select the More Options menu and select
                        Enable Dynamic Child Creation. 





Dynamic Child Queue Capacities window is
                    displayed.

Set the Minimum and Maximum capacities that will be applied for every dynamic
                    child queue under that particular parent queue.

Save the minimum and maximum capacity with the default values that copy the
                        parent queue, or change them using the Auto Queue Creation template
                        (Technical Preview) feature.
Technical Preview: This is a technical preview feature and considered
                        under development. Do not use this in your production systems. To share your
                        feedback, contact Support by logging a case on our Cloudera Support Portal. Technical preview features
                        are not guaranteed troubleshooting guidance and fixes.


Dynamic child creation is enabled for the queue and a bolt icon is visible next to
            the queue’s name.

If you want to define a placement rule that could lead to dynamically created child
                queues, ensure that during placement rule creation you check the Create
                    the target queue if it does not exist? property and provide a parent
                queue for which dynamic child creation is enabled. For more information, see
                    Manage placement rules.


Related informationManaging placement rulesPlacement rule policiesDisabling auto queue deletion globallyParent topic: Managing dynamic queues