Disabling queue auto removal on a queue levelCloudera Docs
Disabling queue auto removal on a queue level
Dynamically created child queues are automatically deleted after they expire. If you
        want to keep dynamically created child queues of a specific parent queue running after their
        last job is finished, you can disable the queue auto removal feature for that parent
        queue.

By default automatic queue removal is enabled on two levels - global level and on the
                level of dynamic child creation enabled parent queues. The following steps describe
                how to disable the queue auto removal feature for a dynamic child creation enabled
                parent queue; meaning, its dynamically created child queues are not deleted
                automatically once they become inactive. 
noteIf you want to disable the automatic queue removal for all
                dynamically created child queues, you can use the global Capacity
                    Scheduler Auto Queue Deletion YARN property. For more information,
                see Disabling auto queue deletion globally.


Ensure that the global level auto queue deletion feature is enabled. The feature is
                enabled if the YARN >  Configuration >  Capacity Scheduler Auto Queue Deletion checkbox is selected. 


In Cloudera Manager navigate to Clusters >  YARN Queue Manager UI.
The Overview tab is opened, displaying a hierarchical view of the
                    queues.

Disable the queue auto removal feature for a specific queue.
Repeat the following substeps for all applicable dynamic child creation
                    enabled queues:


Find the queue for which you want to disable the queue auto removal
                            feature, and click the three vertical dots  next to its name.


Select Edit Queue Properties.


In the Dynamic Auto-Creation of Queue section
                            find and clear the Queue Auto Removal (YARN restart
                                required) checkbox.


Click Save.



Auto queue deletion is enabled on the global level and disable for the selected
            dynamic child creation enabled queues. 

Related informationDisabling auto queue deletion globallyParent topic: Deleting dynamically created child queues