Managing placement rulesCloudera Docs
Managing placement rules
Placement rules can define the logic that is taken into account when specifying which
    queue should be used for a submitted job. These predefined rules enable you to submit jobs
    without specifying the queue name at the time of job submission.  
There are two kinds of queue to which jobs can be submitted:
Static queues: Queues that always exist and were defined by the user using the
          Queue Manager UI (or configuration files).
Dynamic queues: Queues that are created dynamically when jobs are submitted to
          them. If the YARN service is restarted they are automatically deleted. To learn more about
          dynamic queues, see Manage dynamic queues.

Placement rules enable you to define the logic that applies when a job is submitted to
      specify which queue should be used for the submitted job. That enables you to submit a job
      without defining a target queue  or to even override the target queue that was specified by
      the submitter during the job submission.
By default, placement rules are taken into account only if no target queue is specified
      during a job submission or if the specified target queue is provided as “default”. To change
      this behavior, see Enable override of default queue mappings.
Placement rules are evaluated in the order in which they appear in the placement rule list.
      When a job is submitted and placement rules have to be taken into account, the rules are
      evaluated, and the first matching rule is used to determine the queue in which the job runs. 
If there is no placement rule and no target queue was specified during the job submission,
      then the job is submitted to the default queue of the scheduler. 
If the target queue of a placement rule does not exist or it cannot be created, the
      configured fallback action is performed. You can configure the fallback action for each
      placement rule, and it can have the following values: 
Skip: Ignore the current rule and proceed to the next.
PlaceDefault: Place the application to the default queue
            root.default (unless it is overridden to something else).
Reject: Reject the submission.

If no target queue was specified during the job submission and no placement rule matches the
      job, then the job is submitted to the default queue of the scheduler. 
By default, if an invalid queue was specified during a job submission, the submission is
      rejected. To change this behavior, see Enable override of default queue
      mappings.

Related informationManaging dynamic queuesPlacement rule policiesWhen creating a placement rule you have to set its policy to define the logic that is         taken into account when specifying which queue should be used for a submitted job. There are         many predefined policies you can choose from, or you can create a custom policy.How to read the Placement Rules tableIn the Queue Manager UI you can view all of your placement rules on one page.    Learning about this page can help you manage your placement rules according to your    needs.Creating placement rulesYou can create placement rules using the YARN Queue Manager UI in Cloudera     Manager.Reordering placement rulesPlacement rules are evaluated in the order in which they appear in the placement rule     list. When a job is submitted, the rules are evaluated, and the first matching rule is used to     determine the queue in which the job is run.Editing placement rulesThe Queue Manager UI enables you to edit previously created placement     rules.Deleting placement rulesThe YARN Queue Manager UI enables you to delete previously created placement rules. If     you want to delete queues associated with placement rules, you first have to delete its     associated placement rules.Enabling override of default queue mappingsBy default, placement rules are considered only if a target queue is not specified     during a job submission.You can change that behaviour to take placement rules into account     whether a target queue is specified at job submission or not.