Controlling access to queues using ACLsCloudera Docs
Controlling access to queues using ACLs
Use Access-control lists (ACLs) to control access rights to users and administrators to
    the Capacity Scheduler queues.
Application submission can really only happen at the leaf queue level, but an ACL restriction set on a parent queue will be applied to all of its descendant queues.
In the Capacity Scheduler, ACLs are configured by granting queue access to a list of users
      and groups with the Submit Application ACL parameter. The format of the
      list is "user1,user2 group1,group2" -- a comma-separated list of users, followed by a space,
      followed by a comma-separated list of groups.noteThe default value of Submit
          Application ACL for a root queue is yarn, which means that only the default
        yarn user can submit applications to that queue. Therefore, to provide specific users and
        groups with access to the queue, you must explicitly set the value of Submit
          Application ACL to those users and groups.
The  Submit Application ACL (acl_submit_applications) parameter
      can also be set to the following values:
asterisk ("*")
Allow access to all users and group
space character (" ")
Block access to all users and groups

empty string value ("")
Block access to all users and groups

As mentioned previously, ACL settings on a parent queue are applied to all of its descendant
      queues. Therefore, if the parent queue uses the "*" (asterisk) value (or is
      not specified) to allow access to all users and groups, its child queues cannot restrict
      access. Similarly, before you can restrict access to a child queue, you must first set the
      parent queue to " " (space character) or "" (empty string
      value) to block access to all users and groups.
For example, the following properties would set the root Submit Application
        ACL value to " " (space character) to block access to all users
      and groups, and also restrict access to its child "support" queue to the users "sherlock" and
      "john" and the members of the "cfo-group" group:
Each child queue is tied to its parent queue with the configuration property. The top-level "support", "engineering", and "marketing" queues would be tied to the "root" queue.
To set the ACLs based on this example, perform the following:

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
        service. A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the Overview tab. 
Click on the three vertical dots on the queue you want to set ACL and select
          Edit Queue Properties option.
In the Queue Properties dialog-box, add sherlock,john
          cfo-group in the Submit Application ACL text box. 
Click  Save.

A separate ACL can be used to control the administration of queues at various levels. Queue
      administrators can submit applications to the queue, stop applications in the queue, and
      obtain information about any application in the queue (whereas normal users are restricted
      from viewing all of the details of other users' applications).
If the Queue Administer ACL value is set to " "
      (space character) or "" (empty string value), it blocks access to all users
      and groups. If the ACL is set to sherlock,john cfo-group , it allows
      access to the users "sherlock" and "john" and the members of the "cfo-group" group.

Parent topic: Configuring per queue properties