Creating placement rulesCloudera Docs
Creating placement rules
You can create placement rules using the YARN Queue Manager UI in Cloudera
    Manager.


Placement rule that uses static queue
Create the target leaf queue before creating the placement rule that uses it. When
            creating the placement rule the UI will display all the existing leaf queues.
Placement rule that uses dynamically created queues
Enable the dynamic child creation feature for the target parent queue before creating
            the placement rule that uses it. When creating the rule the UI will display all the
            existing queues as target parent queue options but if the dynamic child creation feature
            is not enabled for the selected queue, a warning message will be displayed and you
            cannot create the placement rule. For more information, see Manage dynamic
              queues.



In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN Queue Manager UI.
A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the Overview
          tab.

Navigate to Placement Rules.

Click +Add.
The Add Placement Rules dialog box is displayed with the
          default settings or with settings that are the exact replica of the last placement rule
          that you have created.



Use the The rule should match application by property to set the
          application parameter that should match with the rule. 

Use the This rule should match field to set the value of the
          matching application parameter that should match with the rule.

Set what the rule should do when an application is matched. 
When an application is matched, do the following: Sets the
          placement rule policy. The following options are available:
Place the application into a queue named for the user.
Place the application into a queue named for the user's primary group.
Place the application into a queue named for the user that is the child of a queue
              named for the user's primary group.
Place the application into a queue named for the user's secondary group.
Place the application into a queue named for the user that is the child of a queue
              named for the user's secondary group.
Place the application into a queue named for the application.
Place the application in the queue specified at run time.
Place the application into the default queue.
Reject the application.
Set the default queue to:
Use the following custom policy:


Set additional configuration for the placement rule.
Depending on the selected policy, different options become available. These are as
            follows:Table 1. Policy specification

Selected policy
Additional configuration





Place the application into a queue named for the user.
Place the application into a queue named for the user's primary
                        group.
Place the application into a queue named for the user that is the child of
                        a queue named for the user's primary group.
Place the application into a queue named for the user's secondary
                        group.
Place the application into a queue named for the user that is the child of
                        a queue named for the user's secondary group.
Place the application into a queue named for the application.


The The parent of the queue in which the application is placed
                      should be dropdown list appears. Select the parent of the queue to
                    which the job should be submitted.importantCloudera recommends to always set the parent queue when it is an available
                      property, even if it is only optional. In this way issues caused by leaf
                      queues with the same name can be avoided.




Place the application in the queue specified at run time.
Place the application into the default queue.
Reject the application.


No additional configuration required.


Set the default queue to:
A dropdown list appears. Select which available queue you want to make the
                    default queue.


Use the following custom policy:
A text box appears in which you can provide the custom policy you want to
                    use.




If you want the target queue to be created, if it does not exist  at the time of the
          job submission, select the Create the target queue if it does not
            exist? checkbox. To enable this feature you have to set a parent queue in
          Step 7.

noteYou have to enable the dynamic child creation feature for the parent queue you
            select if you want the target queue to be created if it does not exist at the time of
            the job submission.


Use the If the target queue does not exist and cannot be created, do the
            following property to set the fallback action.
The following fallback actions are available:
Go to the next placement rule.
Place the application into the default queue.
Reject the application.


Check you placement rule settings.

Click OK.

Provide a description of the change and then click OK.

The rule is added to the bottom of the placement rule list and
      becomes the last rule to be evaluated.

Related informationManaging dynamic queuesExample - Placement rules creationYou have to set up your placement rules to fulfill your specific need. In this example a     cluster is shared among developers, QA engineers and test developers and there are nine     placement logics that you want to set up.Parent topic: Managing placement rules