Managing queuesCloudera Docs
Managing queues
YARN Queue Manager is the queue management graphical user interface for Apache Hadoop
      YARN Capacity Scheduler. You can use YARN Queue Manager UI to manage your cluster capacity
      using queues to balance resource requirements of multiple applications from various users.
      Using YARN Queue Manager UI, you can set scheduler level properties and queue level
      properties. 
You can view, sort, search, and filter queues using YARN Queue Manager UI. 
         Queue Manager stores history of previous changes and provides the ability to view the changes of 
         each version in the Overview and Scheduler Configuration tabs. The previous versions will be 
         in the read-only mode and you must select the latest version to make changes.
The fundamental unit of scheduling in YARN is a queue. The capacity of each queue specifies the percentage of cluster
         resources that are available for applications submitted to the queue. Capacity Scheduler
         queues can be set up in a hierarchy that reflects the database structure, resource
         requirements, and access restrictions required by the various organizations, groups, and
         users that utilize cluster resources. 
For example, suppose that a company has three organizations: Engineering, Support, and
         Marketing. The Engineering organization has two sub-teams: Development and QA. The Support
         organization has two sub-teams: Training and Services. And finally, the Marketing organization
         is divided into Sales and Advertising. The following image shows the queue hierarchy for this
         example:





Each child queue is tied to its parent queue and the top-level "support", "engineering", and
         "marketing" queues would be tied to the "root" queue.

Adding queues using YARN Queue Manager UIYou can add queues to the predefined queue called root from the Yarn Queue     Manager UI. The Capacity Scheduler has a predefined queue called root. All queues in the system     are children of the root queue. Each child queue is tied to its parent queue, but children     queues do not inherit properties directly from the parent queue unless otherwise     specified.Configuring cluster capacity with queuesYou can manage your cluster capacity using queues to balance resource requirements of multiple applications from various users.Configuring the resource capacity of root queue in absolute modeIn absolute resource allocation mode when you remove or add new resources to your         cluster, you can update the resource capacity for the root queue accordingly. You can         configure the capacity of the root queue using the YARN Queue Manager UI.Changing resource allocation modeThere are three supported resource allocation modes: absolute, relative, and weight resource allocation mode.      When creating a new cluster, the default allocation mode is the relative resource allocation mode.  You can change the      resource allocation mode from the root queue by editing the queue properties using the Yarn Queue Manager UI. Starting and stopping queuesQueues in YARN can be in two states: RUNNING or STOPPED. A RUNNING state indicates that a queue can accept application submissions, and a STOPPED queue does not accept application submissions. The default state of any configured queue is RUNNING.Deleting queuesYou must first stop the queue before deleting the queue. You can delete a single queue and     also parent queue and its children if all the queues in the hierarchy are stopped.Setting queue prioritiesBy setting queue priorities you can ensure that applications can access cluster         resources. 