Revalidating Dynamic ConfigurationsCloudera Docs
Revalidating Dynamic Configurations
Dynamic Configurations need to be revalidated after queue configuration changes. You
        can revalidate Dynamic Configurations using the YARN Queue Manager UI.

When changing the queue configuration, on the bottom of the queue’s
                configuration dialog box the following message is displayed to remind you that
                Dynamic Configuration revalidation needs to be
                performed:Changes you make here may invalidate dynamic configurations, so you will need to revalidate them. This can be performed on the Schedule tab.
In addition a red dot appears next to the Scheduler tab, indication that
                some action needs to be taken related to Dynamic Queue Scheduling.
noteThe revalidation of Dynamic Configurations can take a
                significant amount of time if you have a higher number of queues. Until the
                revalidation is done you cannot use the Schedule tab of the YARN Queue Manager
                UI.


In Cloudera Manager nevigate to the YARN Queue Manager
                        UI.

Click Schedule.

After any queue change the following message is displayed on the Schedule
                        page:
                        Revalidation Required: All dynamic configuration must be revalidated due to queue changes. Please click Revalidate to proceed.



Click Revalidate.
As a result an orange dot next to the Schedule tab, and
                        Revalidation in progress status text appear.

Wait until revalidation is finished.
You do not have to stay on the Schedule page until the
                    Revalidation is done. Once the orange dot next to the
                        Schedule tab disappears , the revalidation is
                    finished.

Check if any of the Dynamic Configuration became disabled.

Perform one of the following actions for the disabled Dynamic
                    Configurations:


Update the queue configuration to make the Dynamic
                            Configuration valid
Update the Dynamic Configuration to make it valid
Delete the invalid Dynamic Configuration




Parent topic: Dynamic Queue Scheduling