Managing dynamic child creation enabled parent queuesCloudera Docs
Managing dynamic child creation enabled parent queues
The YARN Queue Manager UI in Cloudera Manager provides an overview of your queue
        hierarchy where you can view and manage the parent queues for which dynamic child creation
        is enabled.

In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN Queue Manager
                    UI.
A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the
                        Overview tab. A bolt icon is displayed next to the
                    queue name of parent queues for which dynamic child creation is
                    enabled.

Select the three vertical dots and perform one of the following action for a
                    dynamic child creation enabled parent queue:


 Edit Queue Properties: In relative and
                            absolute resource allocation modes, you can view and edit the
                                Dynamic Auto-Creation of Queue section of the
                                Queue Properties. In weight resource
                            allocation mode, you can only view that section.
Add Child Queue: Supported only in weight
                            resource allocation mode where a dynamic parent queue can have both
                            static and dynamic child queues simultaneously.
Delete Queue: You have to stop the queue first
                            before you can delete it.noteYou cannot delete the
                                    root and the root.default
                                queues.
Stop Queue / Stop Queue and Its Children: Stop
                            the queue and its child queues, if there is any.noteIn weight resource
                                allocation mode, if the queue has dynamically created child queues,
                                you cannot restart the dynamic child queues once you have stopped
                                them.
Edit Dynamic Child Queue Capacities: Edit the
                            capacities of dynamic child queues created under the parent queue.
More Information: You are redirected to the
                                Resource Manager UIv2 Queues page.




Parent topic: Managing dynamic queues