Configure FPGA scheduling and isolationCloudera Docs
Configure FPGA scheduling and isolation
You can enable and configure FPGA as a resource type using Cloudera
        Manager.

Ensure that the FPGA Runtime or SDK is installed in such a way that the aocl command
                is executable by the NodeManager. For more information about how to install FPGA,
                see Intel Acceleration Stack Quick Start Guide for
                        Intel Programmable Acceleration Card with Intel Arria 10 GX
                FPGA.


In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select FPGA Management category under Filters.

Find the Enable FPGA Usage property and select the
                    NodeManagers that can provide FPGA devices to YARN applications that request
                    them.

Use the Path to FPGA (aocl) tool property to specify the
                    full local path to the Intel aocl tool installed on the applicable nodes.

Use the Allowed FPGA devices to specify the FPGA devices
                    which can be managed by YARN NodeManager.

Valid values are the following:
Auto: Default value. All available FPGA devices are
                                allowed.
Comma separated list: List the minor number of the allowed FPGAs.
                                For example: 0,1



Use the List of available FPGA devices property to
                    manually specify the available FPGA devices.

Provide the value in the following format:
                            deviceA/major_number:minor_number,deviceB/major_number:minor_number
For example: acl0/238:0,acl1/238:1
The acl numbers are displayed using the aocl diagnose
                        command. 
The major and minor device numbers can usually be determined by listing the
                        device files under /dev. Every card has a corresponding
                        device file. The ls -l command shows both numbers.


Use the FPGA device major number property to provide the
                    major device number of the FPGA card.

This property is used in the container-executor.cfg
                            file.importantOnly one major number can be specified for
                            each node, meaning that a node can have only one kind of FPGA
                            card.


Use the FPGA initializer script property to provide the
                    path to the shell script that sets up the environment for the FPGA device.

The initializer script sets up various environment variables, and sources
                        other scripts allowing the aocl tool to run properly. The
                        contents of this script depends heavily on the installation. For example, in
                        case of Intel Processing Accelerator Card (PAC), it is necessary to source
                            init_env.sh and init_opencl.sh.
The following environment variables are possibly required to be exported: 
AOCL_BOARD_PACKAGE_ROOT
CL_CONTEXT_COMPILER_MODE_INTELFPGA

Please consult the vendor’s documentation for further details. 


Click Save Changes.

Restart the affected NodeManagers.

FPGA support is enabled and configured.
Request FPGA resource by specifying yarn.io/fpga as a
            resource.

Parent topic: Use FPGA scheduling