Dynamic Queue SchedulingCloudera Docs
Dynamic Queue Scheduling 
The Dynamic Queue Scheduling feature enables you to dynamically change the system state
  by reconfiguring the values of properties at a predefined time.
The Dynamic Queue Scheduling feature supports queue-level resource allocation configurations
   only. Additionally, the feature is only supported in relative and absolute resource allocation
   mode, and does not include dynamic queues.
The Dynamic Queue Scheduling feature enables you to set a time when a predefined configuration
   is applied to the YARN Queue Manager system.
Review the following scenario: There are two system states, State-A and State-B, that have to
   be scheduled for the system. State-A should be used from 8 AM to 8 PM, and State-B should be used
   from 8 PM to 8 AM. In this case two scheduling rules have to be created: 
Scheduling rule A takes effect at 8 AM and applies Dynamic Configuration State-A to the
     system.
Scheduling rule B takes effect at 8 PM and applies Dynamic Configuration State-B to the
     system.

When a new Dynamic Configuration is created, it is based on the current configuration and
   enabled by default. Dynamic Configurations can be disabled at any time, either manually or by the
   system. If a Dynamic Configuration is an invalid configuration, it is disabled automatically by
   the system and it cannot be enabled manually until it is brought back into a valid state. 
Dynamic Configurations do not contain any structural changes such as adding or deleting queues.
   Moreover, some manual structural changes can invalidate already existing Dynamic Configurations.
   As a result, existing Dynamic Configurations are validated when any structural changes occur. The
   following table explains how and when the system validates a Dynamic Configuration and the
   results of validation. 
Table 1. Dynamic Configuration validation

Validation time
Triggering event
What is checked?
Action if Dynamic Configuration is invalid
Action if Dynamic Configuration is valid



Design time
When saving a Dynamic Configuration.
The system checks if the Dynamic Configuration is valid and can be applied.
The Dynamic Configuration is saved in a disabled state and marked as invalid.
Dynamic Configuration is saved in an enabled state.


Run time
When the system begins to apply a Dynamic Configuration.
The system checks if the Dynamic Configuration is valid and can be applied.
Dynamic Configuration is not applied and is disabled.
Dynamic Configuration is applied to the system.


In addition to the listed automatic validation, manual validation is required after queue
   configuration changes. This validation is not triggered automatically, but the UI will prompt you
   to perform Dynamic Configuration revalidation when you make any queue configuration changes. For
   more information, see Revalidate Dynamic Configurations.

Creating a new Dynamic ConfigurationIn Cloudera Manager, using the YARN Queue Manager UI you can create new Dynamic         Configurations that will be used by the Dynamic Queue Scheduling feature.Managing Dynamic ConfigurationsIn Cloudera Manager using the Queue Manager UI you can manage the Dynamic         Configuration you have created for the Dynamic Queue Scheduling feature.How to read the Configurations tableIn the Queue Manager UI you can view all of your Dynamic Configurations on one page.         Learning about this page can help you manage the Dynamic Queue Scheduling         feature.Handling Dynamic Configuration conflictsA dynamic queue configuration related scheduling conflict occurs if two or more         Dynamic Configurations are scheduled to be applied at the same time. You can either enable         Dynamic Configuration with conflicts or modify the conflicting Dynamic Configuration to         resolve conflicts. Revalidating Dynamic ConfigurationsDynamic Configurations need to be revalidated after queue configuration changes. You         can revalidate Dynamic Configurations using the YARN Queue Manager UI.Dynamic Configurations execution logThe execution log page displays all Dynamic Configurations that are executed, either   according to their schedule or manually. The log provides information if those Dynamic   Configurations were applied successfully or failed.