Prerequisites for queue autoscaling (Technical Preview)Cloudera Docs
Prerequisites for queue autoscaling (Technical Preview)
You must configure Load-based autoscaling in Data Hub before configuring queue
    autoscaling. Load-based autoscaling scales the host group up or down based upon YARN’s
    assessment of pending demand and available capacity. Load-based autoscaling can help control
    costs while providing on-demand cluster capacity. 

noteData Hub Load-based Autoscaling feature is under Technical Preview. The technical preview feature and considered under development. Do not use this in your production systems. To share your feedback, contact Support by logging a case on our https://my.cloudera.com/support.htmlCloudera Support Portal. Technical preview features are not guaranteed troubleshooting guidance and fixes.
When you configure a load-based autoscaling policy, you choose a minimum and
        maximum number of nodes for the host group. The policy does not scale below or beyond the
        range of nodes that you define, regardless of the demand on the cluster. You also define a
        cool down period, which is the number of minutes to wait before another autoscaling operation
        is performed.


In the Data Hub Clusters homepage, click Create Data
            Hub and select the desired environment and cluster definition. Define the
          general cluster settings.

Under Auto Scaling, click the slider button to enable
          autoscaling. Autoscaling is disabled by default. 

Click Add Autoscale Policy and select
          Load-Based, and then click Add. 



Define the policy parameters. 



Autoscale policy Parameters
Parameter Description



Name
Enter a unique name for the policy.


Host Group
Select the host group that you want to scale. The list of available host
                    groups is determined by which host groups include services that can be
                    scaled.


Target
Enter a minimum and maximum number of nodes for the policy. During any
                    autoscaling operation, the number of nodes do not exceed the predefined maximum
                    or drop below the predefined minimum.


Cooldown
After an autoscaling event occurs, enter the amount of time in minutes to
                    wait before performing another scaling operation. This means that the scaling
                    events during cooldown time are dropped.




Click Add. The policy appears under Auto Scaling
          on the Provision Data Hub page.

Parent topic: Configure queue-based autoscaling (Technical Preview)