Oozie Sidecar migration to CDPCloudera Docs
Oozie Sidecar migration to CDP
To migrate Oozie to CDP, you must manually migrate workloads and configurations to the
    destination cluster. 
The Oozie database on the source cluster is automatically
      configured to purge data that is older than 30 days. If you need to retain
      this data, Cloudera recommends that you back up the data and make it
      available for running simple SQL queries. See Back Up the Databases. 
Ensure that you have set up a new Oozie database on the
      destination cluster. (You may have already done this when you installed
      ​​Cloudera Manager on the destination cluster.) 
Most Oozie workloads and configurations will need to be
      migrated manually to the destination cluster. Although you can copy the
      XML and property files from the source cluster, these files will require
      extensive modifications before they can be used in the destination
      cluster. Cloudera Professional Services can assist you with these
      migrations.
In general, you will need to ensure that the following settings
      are correct for the destination cluster:


        Name-node settings for each workflow.
      

        Resource-manager settings for each workflow.
      

        Paths, if the locations are being changed 
      

        JDBC URLs, including Hive must point to the new database,
      

        DFS paths may need to be replaced with S3, Azure, as
          appropriate
      

        New cluster-specific configurations for the Workflow (for
          example, Amazon S3 credentials.)
      

        Coordinator Jobs that have future sdf runs scheduled. 
        Recreate these jobs to match what was included in HDP. For such
          Jobs, the Workflow and its configuration might be stored in Hue.
      

        Copy any custom sharelib jars from the source to the
          destination cluster. The jars are stored here:
              /user/oozie/share/lib/lib_{TIMESTAMP}/{COMPONENT}

If you have custom application jars used by any of your workflows,
        please make sure you recompile them with the 3rd-party libraries used by
        the latest Cloudera runtime. For example on older versions of HDP, Oozie was
        using Guava 11, but in CDP 7 it is using Guava 28 or higher. If you
        compiled your application with Guava 11 you must also upgrade
        Guava.
 On the destination cluster, update the sharelib using the
        following command:
        oozie admin -oozie {URL} -sharelibupdate


 

Parent topic: Migrating Services