YARN Capacity Scheduler Sidecar migration from HDP to CDPCloudera Docs
YARN Capacity Scheduler Sidecar migration from HDP to CDP
To migrate YARN from a HDP cluster you must migrate the Capacity
    Scheduler to CDP. The migration includes converting Capacity Scheduler
    placement rules to the new JSON format.To migrate the Capacity scheduler from HDP to
        CDP:​​ Get and copy the capacity-scheduler.xml
          configuration file from Ambari.  Log in to Cloudera Manager in the destination
          cluster and ensure that the YARN Queue Manager is not started
          and that the YARN service is installed and running.  Go to the YARN service.  Click the Configurations tab.
         Search for the following property:
            Capacity Scheduler Configuration Advanced Configuration
            Snippet (Safety Valve)
 Copy and paste the contents of the
            capacity-scheduler.xml configuration file you
          copied from Ambari into the text box.  Restart YARN. (Click Actions > Restart)
         Open the YARN Queue Manager UI (Click Clusters >
            [Cluster Name] > YARN Queue Manager UI)  Queue Manager reads the configuration from the
          safety-valve and if it detects that the placement rules are in the
          format used by the source cluster, it automatically converts it into
          the new JSON-based placement rules format (this format was introduced
          in CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6). 
 Verify that Queue Manager correctly converted the
          configuration. You can test the conversions by going to the Placement
          Rules tab and changing the value of a property temporarily. If you see
          an “out of sync” error message, then the configurations are not in
          sync. 

From now on, Queue Manage can be used for
      configuration.noteThe capactiy-scheduler.xml Advanced Configuration
      Snippet works differently than the usual Advanced Configuration Snippet.
      Normally, Advanced Configuration Snippets are used as a powerful tool to
      edit configuration. In the case of the YARN Queue Manager UI, Queue
      Manager continuously writes into the Advanced Configuration snippet as the
      user changes the configuration via the YARN Queue Manager UI.
      Therefore the configuration set in the  Advanced Configuration Snippet
      cannot differ from the Queue Manager configuration. If you
      experience out-of-sync errors, restart the YARN and Queue Manager
      services, which will override the Advanced Configuration Snippet with the
      latest settings applied in Queue Manager.
Parent topic: Migrating Services