Adding a new Database CatalogCloudera Docs
Adding a new Database Catalog
A Database Catalog is automatically created when you activate an environment in
    Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). You can add additional Database Catalogs if you want a standalone
    data warehouse that is not shared with other authorized users of the environment.
When you activate an environment from the Data Warehouse, a default Database
        Catalog is created and named after your environment. This HMS instance associated with the
        default Database Catalog is the same HMS as the one used by your CDP environment. You can
        add additional Database Catalogs if you want standalone data warehouses based on a new HMS
        instance. When you create a new Database Catalog, you specify which environment to use. If
        you make a change to the default database catalog, the change is reflected in the
        environment where the default Database Catalog resides.noteCloudera recommends that you use the default Database Catalog in
        production environments. While CDW enables you to create custom Database Catalogs, these are
        not supported by Cloudera.You can optionally load demo data in Hue when you create a
      new Database Catalog.
You need to obtain the DWAdmin role.You must also enable the Create
          multiple Database Catalogs option on the Advanced Configurations > Advanced Settings page. 

Log in to the CDP web interface, navigate to Data Warehouse > Database Catalogs > Add New.

In Name, specify a Database Catalog name.

noteCDW uses deterministic namespace and adds a prefix to the
            Database Catalog name. The length of the namespace ID after CDW applies a prefix to the
            Database Catalog name, including the hyphen (-), should not exceed 63 characters. You
            can specify the Database Catalog name 53 characters long.


In Environments, select the name of an activated
          environment.

For example purposes, turn on Load Demo Data to use sample
          airline data in Hue.

Click Create to create the new Database Catalog.


