Enabling CDS 3.3 with GPU SupportCloudera Docs
Enabling CDS 3.3 with GPU Support
To activate the CDS 3.3 with GPU Support feature on suitable
  hardware, you need to create a Yarn role group and optionally make configuration changes to enable
  the NVIDIA RAPIDS Shuffle Manager.

Set up a Yarn role group to enable GPU usage
Create a Yarn role group so that you can selectively enable GPU usage for nodes with
        GPUs within your cluster.
GPU scheduling and isolation must be
            configured.
Enabling GPU on YARN through the Enable GPU Usage tickbox
            operates on cluster-level. Role groups in Yarn enable you to apply settings selectively,
            to a subset of nodes within your cluster.Role groups are configured on the service
                level. 

In Cloudera Manager navigate to Yarn > Instances.

Create a role group where you can add nodes with GPUs.
For more information, see Creating a Role Group.

Move role instances with GPUs to the group you created. 
On the Configuration tab select the source role group
                    with the hosts you want to move, then click Move Selected Instances To Group and select the role group you created.
You may need to restart the cluster.

Enable GPU usage for the role group.


On the Configuration tab select Categories >  GPU Management.


Under GPU Usage click Edit Individual
                                Values and select the role group you created.


Click Save Changes.





Configure NVIDIA RAPIDS Shuffle Manager
The NVIDIA RAPIDS Shuffle Manager is a custom ShuffleManager for Apache Spark that
        allows fast shuffle block transfers between GPUs in the same host (over PCIe or NVLink) and
        over the network to remote hosts (over RoCE or Infiniband).

NVIDIA RAPIDS Shuffle Manager has been shown to accelerate workloads where shuffle is
                the bottleneck when using the RAPIDS accelerator for Apache Spark. It accomplishes
                this by using a GPU shuffle cache for fast shuffle writes when shuffle blocks fit in
                GPU memory, avoiding the cost of writes to host using the built-in Spark Shuffle, a
                spill framework that will spill to host memory and disk on demand, and Unified Communication
                    X (UCX) as its transport for fast network and peer-to-peer (GPU-to-GPU)
                transfers.
CDS 3.3 with GPU Support has built in support for UCX, no
                separate installation is required.
Cloudera and NVIDIA recommend using the RAPIDS shuffle manager for clusters with
                Infiniband or RoCE networking.


Validate your UCX environment following the instructions provided in the NVIDIA
                        spark-rapids documentation.

Before running applications with the RAPIDS Shuffle Manager, make the following
                    configuration changes:

--conf "spark.shuffle.service.enabled=false" \
--conf "spark.dynamicAllocation.enabled=false"

Optional: 
You are recommended to make the following UCX settings:
spark.executorEnv.UCX_TLS=cuda_copy,cuda_ipc,rc,tcp
spark.executorEnv.UCX_RNDV_SCHEME=put_zcopy
spark.executorEnv.UCX_MAX_RNDV_RAILS=1
spark.executorEnv.UCX_IB_RX_QUEUE_LEN=1024For more information on
                    environment variables, see the NVIDIA spark-rapids documentation.noteRunning a job with the
                            --rapids-shuffle=true flag does not affect these
                        optional settings. You need to set them manually.


