CDS 3.3 Powered by Apache Spark OverviewCloudera Docs
CDS 3.3 Powered by Apache Spark Overview
Apache Spark is a general framework for distributed computing that offers
    high performance for both batch and interactive processing. It exposes
    APIs for Java, Python, and Scala. This document describes CDS 3.3 Powered by Apache Spark. It enables
    you to install and evaluate the features of Apache Spark 3 without upgrading your CDP Private Cloud
    Base cluster.

      For detailed API information, see the
      Apache
      Spark project site.
    

CDS 3.3 Powered by Apache Spark is an add-on service for CDP Private
      Cloud Base, distributed as a parcel and the Cloudera Service Descriptor file is available in
      Cloudera Manager for CDP 7.1.8. 
 On CDP Private Cloud Base, a Spark 3 service can coexist with the
      existing Spark 2 service. The configurations of the two services do not
      conflict and both services use the same YARN service. The port of the
      Spark History Server is 18088 for Spark 2 and 18089 for Spark 3. 
noteSpark 3.3 is the first Spark version with the log4j2 dependency. Previous
        versions contained the log4j1 dependency. If you are using any custom logging related
        changes, you must rewrite the original log4j properties’ files using log4j2 syntax, that is,
        XML, JSON, YAML, or properties format.
CDS 3 for GPUs
CDS 3.3 with GPU Support is an add-on service that enables you to take
      advantage of the RAPIDS Accelerator for Apache Spark to accelerate Apache Spark 3 performance
      on existing CDP Private Cloud Base clusters.
Unsupported connectors
 This release does not support the following connectors:

SparkR
Oozie 
Zeppelin


Unsupported Features
 This release does not support the following feature:

Hudi


Limitations of Spark in CDP
Limitations of Spark (in comparison to Apache Spark 3.3) in CDP are described below:

spark.sql.orc.compression.codec config doesn't accept
            zsdt value.
spark.sql.avro.compression.codec config doesn't accept
            zstandard value.
Specifying avroSchemaUrl is not supported in datasource options.
Spark3 parcel is not available on the IBM PowerPC platform.



