Considerations for enabling SCM HA securityCloudera Docs
Considerations for enabling SCM HA security
There are certain factors that you must consider when enabling security for Storage
        Container Managers (SCMs) in High Availability (HA).

Ensure that you have enabled SCM HA by taking the required factors into consideration.
To configure SCM HA security, ensure that the
                    ozone.scm.ratis.enable property is set to
                    true.
To enable gRPC TLS for the interactions among different elements of the Ozone
                cluster, such as among the Ozone Manager (OM) nodes or the SCM nodes, set the
                following property to true:
                    hdds.grpc.tls.enabled.note

gRPC TLS configuration for Ozone is supported only on new CDP 7.1.7
                            clusters and not on clusters upgraded from CDP 7.1.6 to CDP 7.1.7. If
                            you want to enable gRPC TLS on the upgraded CDP 7.1.7 clusters, you must
                            contact Cloudera Support for more information.



importantIf you are using Runtime 7.1.8 CHF 3 and higher, to force renew internal certificates, you can restart the Ozone service. To renew the internal
            certificates, see Procedure to force renew internal
                certificates.
importantIf you are using Runtime 7.1.8 CHF 2 and lower, by default, Ozone’s
            internal certificates expire after one year and CA certificates expire after five years.
            When the certificates expire, you must manually renew and revoke them by performing the
            following steps:
When the Ozone internal SSL certificates expire, you must remove the existing
                    key material and certificates from the services metadata directory and allow the
                    system to regenerate the certificates at startup. To renew the internal
                    certificates, see Procedure to force renew internal
                        certificates.
To revoke a certificate, you must remove the full trust chain to stop trusting a
                    compromised certificate. For this, remove the SCM certificates or any other
                    certificates from the system. During the system startup, new certificates are
                    created and distributed. To revoke a certificate, see Certificate revocation.



Parent topic: Configuring security for Storage Container Managers in High Availability