Kerberos principal and keytab properties for Ozone service daemonsCloudera Docs
Kerberos principal and keytab properties for Ozone service daemons
For the Kerberos-authenticated users or client applications to access Ozone, each of
        the Ozone components requires a Kerberos service principal name and a corresponding kerberos
        keytab file. You must set the corresponding in ozone-site.xml.
The following are the properties for the Kerberos service
            principal and the keytab file that you must set for the different Ozone
            components:
Storage Container Manager (SCM) properties

Property
Description

hdds.scm.kerberos.principal
The SCM service principal. You can specify this value, for example, in
                        the following format: scm/_HOST@REALM.COM

hdds.scm.kerberos.keytab.file
The keytab file that the SCM daemon uses to log in as its service
                        principal.

hdds.scm.http.auth.kerberos.principal
The service principal of the SCM HTTP server.

hdds.scm.http.auth.kerberos.keytab
The keytab file that the SCM HTTP server uses to log in as its service
                        principal.


Ozone Manager (OM) properties

Property
Description

ozone.om.kerberos.principal
The Ozone Manager service principal. You can specify this value, for
                        example, in the following
                        format:om/_HOST@REALM.COM

ozone.om.kerberos.keytab.file
The keytab file that the Ozone Manager daemon uses to log in as its
                        service principal.

ozone.om.http.auth.kerberos.principal
The service principal of the Ozone Manager HTTP server.

ozone.om.http.auth.kerberos.keytab
The keytab file that the Ozone Manager HTTP server uses to log in as
                        its service principal.


S3 Gateway properties

Property
Description

ozone.s3g.kerberos.principal
The S3 Gateway principal. You can specify this value, for example, in
                        the following format:s3g/_HOST@REALM.COM

ozone.s3g.kerberos.keytab.file
The keytab file used by S3Gateway daemon to login as its service
                        principal. The principal name is configured with
                        ozone.s3g.kerberos.principal.

ozone.s3g.http.auth.kerberos.principal

The server principal used by Ozone S3 Gateway server. This is typically
                            set to HTTP/_HOST@REALM.TLD The SPNEGO server principal begins with the
                            prefix HTTP/ by convention.


ozone.s3g.http.auth.kerberos.keytab

The keytab file used by the S3 Gateway server to login as its service
                            principal.



Recon properties

Property
Description

ozone.recon.kerberos.principal
The Recon web user service principal. You can specify this value, for
                        example, in the following
                        format:recon/_HOST@REALM.COM

ozone.recon.kerberos.keytab.file
The keytab file used by the Recon web user.

ozone.recon.http.auth.kerberos.principal

The server principal used by Ozone Recon server. This is typically set to
                            HTTP/_HOST@REALM.TLD The SPNEGO server principal begins with the prefix
                            HTTP/ by convention.


ozone.recon.http.auth.kerberos.keytab
The keytab file for HTTP Kerberos authentication in Recon.

noteOzone does not support authentication based on Simple and Protected
                GSSAPI Negotiation Mechanism (SPNEGO) for http endpoints in the current CDP
                release.


Parent topic: Kerberos configuration for Ozone