YARN tuning overviewCloudera Docs
YARN tuning overview
Abstract description of a YARN cluster and the goals of YARN tuning.
This topic applies to YARN clusters only, and describes how to tune and optimize YARN for
      your cluster. 
noteDownload the Cloudera YARN tuning spreadsheet to help calculate YARN
      configurations. For a short video overview, see Tuning YARN Applications.
This overview provides an abstract description of a YARN cluster and the
         goals of YARN tuning.




A YARN cluster is composed of host machines. Hosts
                           provide memory and CPU resources. A vcore, or virtual core, is a usage share of a host CPU.








Tuning YARN consists primarily of optimally defining
                              containers on your worker hosts. You
                           can think of a container as a rectangular graph consisting of memory and
                           vcores. Containers perform tasks.








Some tasks use a great deal of memory, with minimal
                           processing on a large volume of data.


 




Other tasks require a great deal of processing power,
                           but use less memory. For example, a Monte Carlo Simulation that evaluates
                           many possible "what if?" scenarios uses a great deal of processing power
                           on a relatively small dataset.


 




The YARN ResourceManager allocates memory and vcores
                           to use all available resources in the most efficient way possible.
                           Ideally, few or no resources are left idle.


 




An application is a
                           YARN client program consisting of one or more tasks. Typically, a task
                           uses all of the available resources in the container. A task cannot
                           consume more than its designated allocation, ensuring that it cannot use
                           all of the host CPU cycles or exceed its memory allotment. 


 




Tune your YARN hosts to optimize the use of vcores and
                           memory by configuring your containers to use all available resources
                           beyond those required for overhead and other services. 


 




YARN tuning has three phases. The phases correspond to the tabs in the
         YARN tuning spreadsheet.
Cluster configuration, where you configure your hosts.
YARN configuration, where you quantify memory and vcores.
MapReduce configuration, where you allocate minimum and maximum
               resources for specific map and reduce tasks.


YARN and MapReduce have many configurable properties. The YARN tuning
         spreadsheet lists the essential subset of these properties that are most likely to improve
         performance for common MapReduce applications.

Parent topic: Tuning Apache Hadoop YARN