Auto Tagging workflow with Custom Cluster Sensitivity Profiler RulesCloudera Docs
Auto Tagging workflow with Custom Cluster Sensitivity Profiler Rules
You can auto tag workflows while working with Custom Cluster Sensitivity
            Profiler.
Use the following information to create a custom tag and assign the same to the
                Custom Sensitivity Profiler.

Data Catalog > Profilers > Select
                    the Tag Rules tab.

Click + New to open the Custom
                        Rule window.

Under the Resources pane, click +
                    to open the Regular Expression Editor
                    window.

Enter the name and input the regular expression value in such a way that it
                    matches the test string. 
If your regular expression value is [a-z][a-z][a-z][a-z]
                    and the test string is “baby”, there is a match.

Click Save.

On the Custom Rule window, enter the name and
                    description.

Enter the tags value and select the Column Expression
                        Name from the drop-down.
You must select the same regular expression you had created under the
                        Resources pane.

Enter the tags value and select the Column Value Expression from the
                    drop-down.
You must select the same regular expression you had created under the
                        Resources pane.

Click Save & Validate.
The Data For Validation window
                    appears.

Enter the sample values to validate if Column Expression Name and Column Value
                    Expression entities match.
Make sure that the correct data lake is selected to validate the
                    entries.

Click Submit Validation.
The status for the newly created regular expression validation is
                    displayed on the Tags Rule tab. Once the validation is
                    successful, you can deploy the rule. 

Click Done.
On the Rule Groups pane, verify if the rule is
                    available under the Custom Deployed list. You can also
                    suspend the tag by selecting the same from the list.Once the
                            Cluster Sensitivity Profiler job or
                            On-Demand Profiler picks up the Hive asset for
                        profiling, the newly set-up custom tag must get applied on the Hive column,
                        provided the asset has the column(s) which meet the custom rule
                        criteria.


Parent topic: Sample Workflows