Tag Management and Search workflowCloudera Docs
Tag Management and Search workflow
In Data Catalog, you can create a tag, assign the tag to an asset, and search for an
        asset using various filters.
 You can create a tag and search for any asset using the tag. You can also apply a
            tag to a column. Later, you can search assets based on the Entity and Column
            filters.

Data Catalog > Atlas Tags >
                    Create a new tag

Enter the name, description for the tag.

Inserting classification to inherit attributes and adding new attributes are
                    optional.

Click Save.
The new tag is created.Next, you must assign the newly
                        created tag to one of the existing assets in Data Catalog. For example, we can assign the tag to the Hive table.

Data Catalog > Search for a Hive asset > click on the
                    asset to view the Asset Details page.

Under the Manage Classification panel, click
                        + to enable the tag list view. 

Select the tag that you newly created and assign the tag to the asset.

Click Save.

Next, you can add the tag to a column in the selected asset.


Data Catalog > Search for a Hive asset > click on the
                    asset to view the Asset Details page.

Select the Schema tab and click Edit
                        Tags.

Click + and select the tag from the tag drop-down.
The tag list contains System Tags and
                        Managed Tags. Managed Tags are selected by
                    default.

Select a tag and click Save.
Once tags are added to the table and column, you can search for the
                    corresponding assets using the tag name.To search for the asset using the
                            Entity filter:

Data Catalog > Search > Enter the
                    tag name in the Entity filter.
The asset for which the tag was added is displayed in the search
                        result.To search for the asset using the
                            Column filter:

Data Catalog > Search > Enter the
                    tag name in the Column filter.
The asset for whose column the tag was added is displayed in the search
                    result.


Parent topic: Sample Workflows