Mapping Navigator metadata to AtlasCloudera Docs
Mapping Navigator metadata to Atlas
You must validate the Navigator to Apache Atlas transition by reviewing the list of metadata mapping and its types transitioned from the Navigator. 
Use this topic as a checklist to help you validate the transition of metadata from Navigator
      to Atlas.
User-supplied metadata mapping
The following user-supplied metadata is transitioned to Atlas, including definitions and
        assignments to entities. Enumerations defined in Navigator are created as instances of the
        enumeration type in Atlas.

Navigator Construct
Atlas Construct


Tag
Label


User-defined Properties
Key
Value

 User-defined properties
Key
Value



Managed Properties
Namespace
Namespace description
Property Name (original name)
Classes (entity types that property can be assigned to)         
Display Name
Property description
Multivalued
Type (Text, Number, Boolean, Date,
                      Enumeration)                                 


Business Metadata Attributes
Business Metadata name
Business Metadata description
Attribute name
Applicable Types (entity types that property can be assigned to)
Display Name (not used in the UI) 
Description (not used in the UI)
Enable Multivalues
Type (string, Boolean, byte, short, int, float, double, long, date,
                      enumeration)





Policy mapping
Navigator policies provided the ability to apply metadata to Navigator entities. They do
        not have an equivalent function in Atlas and are not transitioned. You may be able to
        implement similar functionality through data profilers in the Data Catalog.
        
        You can create a report of Navigator policies using the Navigator API, for example, use a
        GET call to the /policy API:
        curl -X GET "<navigator host>:<port>/api/v14/policy" -u <username>:<password>


Technical metadata mapping
The transition process maps all the needed technical metadata for entities from Navigator to
        be represented in Atlas. There are some instances where the transition has to convert data
        from one type to another or generate new content to conform to the Atlas data model. The
        details of the entity mapping are exhaustively described in the Atlas technical metadata transition reference.


Parent topic: Transitioning Navigator content to Atlas