Transitioning the Sentry service to Apache RangerCloudera Docs
Transitioning the Sentry service to Apache Ranger
Before transitioning your cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base, you
    must prepare the Apache Sentry authorization privileges so they can be converted to Apache
    Ranger permissions. Apache Ranger supports the components like HDFS, Hive, and YARN. Apache
    Ranger functions as a centralized security administrator and provides greater access controls
    and auditing capabilities.



warningBefore upgrading CDH 5 clusters with Sentry to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.x
        clusters where Sentry privileges are to be transitioned to Apache Ranger:
The cluster must have Kerberos enabled. 
Verify that HDFS gateway roles exist on the hosts that runs the Sentry service. 

importantIf HDFS ACL sync is enabled (hdfs_sentry_sync_enable=true) on the CDH
        cluster, then you must install Ranger RMS to support the same functionality. For steps to
        install Ranger RMS, see Installing Ranger RMS. 

Perform the following steps after you have upgraded Cloudera Manager to
      version 7.1 or higher:

Verify that the HDFS service is in the Start state.Starting from Cloudera Manager
          7.4.4, the Export Sentry Permissions command is executed as part of the upgrade flow that
          requires the HDFS service to be in the start state.If you are using Cloudera
          Manager 7.3.1, 7.2.4, or any Cloudera Manager 7.1.x version, go to the
            Sentry service and select Actions > Export
            Permissions to export the sentry permissions.
Make sure a MySQL, Oracle, or PostgreSQL database instance is running
        and available to be used by Ranger before you create a new cluster or
        upgrade your cluster from CDH to Cloudera Runtime. See the links below
        for procedures to set up these databases.importantThe
          Ranger database should not be shared with other services or
          applications. 
After you have set up the database, you can continue upgrading the
        cluster. 

After upgrading Cloudera Manager and the cluster, you must import Sentry privileges using
      Ranger so that Sentry privileges translate to Ranger service policies. For more information
      about completing this translation process, see Importing Sentry privileges into Ranger policies.warning The automated translation process does not
        manage Solr permissions. You must translate Solr permissions manually. For more information,
        see Mapping Sentry permissions for Solr to Ranger policies.
noteAuthorization through Apache Ranger is just one element of a secure production
      cluster: Cloudera supports Ranger only when it runs on a cluster where Kerberos is enabled to
      authenticate users.

Configuring a Ranger or Ranger KMS Database: MySQL/MariaDBPrior to upgrading your cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base you must configure the MySQL or MariaDB database instance for Ranger by creating a Ranger database and user. Before you begin the transition, review the support policies of database and admin policy support for transactions.Configuring a Ranger Database: PostgreSQLPrior to upgrading your cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base you must configure the PostgreSQL     database instance for Ranger by creating a Ranger database and user. Before     you begin the transition, review the support policies of database and admin     policy support for transactions.Configuring a Ranger or Ranger KMS Database: OraclePrior to upgrading your cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base you must configure the Oracle     database instance for Ranger by creating a Ranger database and user. Before     you begin the transition, review the support policies of database and admin     policy support for transactions.Parent topic: CDP Private Cloud Base Pre-upgrade transition steps