CDP Private Cloud Base Pre-upgrade transition stepsCloudera Docs
CDP Private Cloud Base Pre-upgrade transition
    steps



The following procedures must be completed before performing a cluster upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base (cluster version Cloudera Runtime 7.1.7 SP2). Only
      complete the procedures for services running in your source cluster.

Set log level for KeyTrustee KMS to INFO Reduce the log output from org.apache.ranger.plugin.* by         changing the log level setting for your Ranger KMS from DEBUG to INFO.Transitioning from Sentry Policy Files to the Sentry ServiceTransitioning the Sentry service to Apache RangerBefore transitioning your cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base, you     must prepare the Apache Sentry authorization privileges so they can be converted to Apache     Ranger permissions. Apache Ranger supports the components like HDFS, Hive, and YARN. Apache     Ranger functions as a centralized security administrator and provides greater access controls     and auditing capabilities.Import Key Trustee KMS ACLs to Ranger KMS policiesThis topic is intended to provide pre-upgrade checks about auth_to_local rules when         importing Key trsutee KMS ACLs to Ranger KMS policies.Transitioning Navigator content to AtlasDuring the transition from CDH to CDP Private Cloud Base, you can transition the metadata from Navigator to Apache Atlas, for a scalable and robust infrastructure that supports enhanced metadata searchability by collecting of metadata directly from your cluster. Migrating Hive 1-2 to Hive 3If you have a large Hive metastore implementation, preparing the metastore for the   upgrade by finding missing tables, missing partitions, and problematic SERDE definitions can take   a long time. Cloudera Community tools can save significant time. For more information, see   Expediting the Hive Upgrade. Check with your Cloudera account team resources regarding   professional services. Checking Apache HBaseTo upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base from CDH and have the HBase     service installed, there are several pre-upgrades steps you are required to complete. CDH cluster upgrade requirements for Replication ManagerReviewing the CDH cluster upgrade guidelines and requirements for Replication Manager help you to upgrade successfully. Before you start the upgrade, check the version numbers to ensure that the clusters are in sync. 