Assessing the Impact of an UpgradeCloudera Docs
Assessing the Impact of an Upgrade
Understanding the impact of an upgrade.


Plan for a sufficient maintenance window to perform an upgrade. Depending
      on which components you are upgrading, the number of hosts in your
      cluster, and the type of hardware, you might need up to a full day to
      upgrade your cluster. Before you begin the upgrade, you need to gather
      some information; these steps are also detailed in the upgrade procedures. 

importantCloudera recommends that you test
        upgrades on non-production clusters before upgrading your production
        clusters. 

There are three types of upgrades: major, minor, and maintenance: 
Major Upgrades
Major upgrades include the following: 
From Cloudera Manager 5.x or 6.x and CDH 5.x or 6.x to
                Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1 or higher
From Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime 7.0.3 to Cloudera
                Manager and Cloudera Runtime 7.2 (CDP Private Cloud Base)
From Cloudera Manager 6.x to Cloudera Manager 7.1.1

A major upgrade typically has the following characteristics:
Large changes to functionality and update of Hadoop to a more
                recent version
Incompatible changes in data formats
Significant changes and additions to the user interface in
                Cloudera Manager
Database schema changes for Cloudera Manager that are
                automatically handled by the upgrade process
Significant down time is required to upgrade the cluster.
Client Configurations
                are redeployed. 


Minor Upgrades
Minor upgrades upgrade your software to a higher minor version of
            a major release—for example from version 7.1.0 to version 7.2.0—and
            typically include the following:
New functionality
Bug fixes
Potential database schema changes for Cloudera Manager that
                are handled automatically
Client Configurations
                are redeployed. 
Incompatible changes or changes to data formats are generally
            not introduced in minor upgrades. 


Patch Upgrades

Patches fix critical bugs or address security issues. The version numbers for maintenance releases
              differ only in the fourth digit, for example, when upgrading from
              version 7.1.3 to 7.1.4.



