Migrating ACLs from Key Trustee KMS to Ranger KMSCloudera Docs
Migrating ACLs from Key Trustee KMS to Ranger KMS
You must perform the following procedures to migrate ACLs from Key Trustee Key
    Management Server (KMS) to Ranger KMS.
Key Trustee ACL evaluation
Before going into the details of how Key Trustee ACLs are evaluated, it is critical that
        you understand the key rules that the Key Trustee Key Management Server uses in performing
        this evaluation.
KMS ACL Flow Rules:

The whitelist class bypasses key.acl and
            default.key.acl controls.
The key.acl definitions override all default definitions.

Encryption key access is evaluated as follows:



1 and 2
The KMS evaluates the hadoop.kms.acl.<OPERATION> and
          hadoop.kms.blacklist.<OPERATION> classes to determine whether or not
        access to a specific KMS feature or function is authorized.
In other words, a user must be allowed by
          hadoop.kms.acl.<OPERATION>, and not be disallowed by
          hadoop.kms.blacklist.<OPERATION>.
If a user is denied access to a KMS-wide operation, then the flow halts and
        returns the result Denied.
If a user is allowed access to a KMS-wide operation, then the evaluation flow
        proceeds.
3
The KMS evaluates the whitelist.key.acl class.
The KMS ACL workflow evaluates the whitelist.key.acl.<OPERATION>, and
        if the user is allowed access, then it is granted (Allowed) . If not, then
        the flow continues with the evaluation.
4 and 5
The KMS evaluates the default.key.acl.<OPERATION> and
          key.acl.<OPERATION> classes.
The KMS evaluates whether or not there is a key.acl.KEY.<OPERATION>
        class that matches the action the user is attempting to perform. If there is, it then
        evaluates that value to determine whether or not the user can perform the requested
          operation.noteBefore evaulating the default.key.acl.<OPERATION> and
            key.acl.<OPERATION> classes, the flow logic determines which classes
          exist. Only one of these can exist and be used at any time (for example,
            key.acl.prodkey.READ overrides default.key.acl.READ
          for prodkey, so the flow logic is configured with it’s own READ
          ACLs)
Depending on the result of the Key Trustee ACL evaluation, controls are applied to the key
        and results (Allowed or Denied).

Access evaluation with Ranger KMS policies
Access is evaluated with Ranger KMS policies as follows:



1
After the request is received, the Deny condition of the Global
        Override policy is evaluated. If the user is present, the flow halts and returns the result
          Deny. If the user is not present, the evaluation flow proceeds.
2
Now, the Allow condition of the Global Override policy is evaluated. If
        the user is present, the flow halts and returns the result Allow. If the
        user is not present, the evaluation flow proceeds.
3
If the Key Resource Specific policy is present, the Allow
        condition of the Key Resource Specific policy is evaluated. If the user is not present, the
        flow halts and returns the result Deny. If the user is present, the flow is
        complete and returns the result Allow.
4
If the Key Resource Specific policy is not present, the Deny condition of
        the Default policy, all-keyname, is evaluated. If the user is present, the flow halts and
        returns the result Deny. If the user is not present, the evaluation flow
        proceeds.
5
Now, the Allow condition of the Default policy, all-keyname, is evaluated.
        If the user is not present, the flow halts and returns the result Deny. If
        the user is present, the flow is complete and returns the result Allow.


Key Trustee KMS operations not supported by Ranger KMSThe following Key Trustee KMS operations are not supported by Ranger KMS.ACLs supported by Ranger KMS and Ranger KMS MappingThe following ACLs are supported by Ranger KMS and Ranger KMS mapping.Parent topic: CDH 6 to CDP Private Cloud Base post-upgrade transition steps