Understanding the Hive upgradeCloudera Docs
Understanding the Hive upgrade
You  need an understanding of the Hive Strict Managed Migration (HSMM) and the Hive
  Upgrade Check tool for a successful upgrade.
HSMM vs the Hive Upgrade Check tool
It is difficult to estimate how long the Hive Strict Managed Migration will take. The
    following factors are just a few that might affect how long it takes:


Number of managed tables


Core processing power


Backend metastore database speed


The process runs across all Hive metastore databases and tables by default,
    identifying managed tables that need to undergo compaction or conversion to Hive 3 ACID V2
    tables. 
Consider expediting the upgrade process if one of the following conditions exist:


You have few, or no, ACID tables but do have many legacy managed tables in your
      environment.

Reducing downtime is critical, and justifies the extra effort to expedite the
     upgrade process.


Why upgrading takes so long
The underlying Hive upgrade process Hive Strict Managed Migration (HSMM) is an Apache Hive
    conversion utility that makes adjustments to Hive tables under the enhanced and strict Hive 3
    environment to meet the needs of the most demanding workloads and governance requirements for
    Data Lake implementations. There are some changes to the standard behaviors in Hive table
    definitions and locations. The HSMM reviews every database and table to determine if changes are
    needed to meet these
    requirements.
With systems that have been around for a while, or have adopted some ingest
    patterns, there may be artifacts in the metastore that cannot be reconciled, including the
    following artifacts:
Tables and partitions without reciprocating storage locations
Tables using SERDEs that have been abandoned. 
ACIDv1 tablesThese tables must be fully compacted before the upgrade. If tables
      are not compacted, data loss is highly likely.

When these irreconcilable conditions occur, it requires manual intervention to fix
    problems before it can proceed. 
The Hive upgrade process iterates through the databases and tables, attempting to
    materialize each of them using the Hive Metastore and public Thrift APIs. That creates a heavy
    load on the underlying metastore database and entire system.


Parent topic: Expediting the Hive upgrade