Upgrade Key Trustee Server to 7.1.xCloudera Docs
Upgrade Key Trustee Server to 7.1.x 
How to upgrade Key Trustee Server to CDP Private Cloud 7.1.x.

Running Upgrading a Cluster will not upgrade the Key Trustee Server. KTS is
                not part of the overall CDH parcel and must be upgraded separately. Upgrading the
                KTS can be done at any point after performing Upgrading Cloudera Manager. 
If you are upgrading from CDH 5.13 through CDH 5.16, you must first upgrade the CDH
                Key Trustee Server to 5.15 before upgrading to the CDP 7.1.x  Key Trustee
                Server.
If you are upgrading from CDH 6.1 through CDH 6.3, you must first upgrade the CDH Key
                Trustee Server to 6.1 before upgrading to the CDP 7.1.x Key Trustee Server.
From CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6, the KEYTRUSTEE_SERVER parcel is available in the
                same location in which the Cloudera runtime parcel is placed. If you have configured
                the parcel repository for CDP Private Cloud Base upgrade, the KEYTRUSTEE_SERVER
                parcel is displayed automatically.
If you are using a package-based KTS install, see Migrating Unmanaged Key Trustee
                    Server to Cloudera Manager.


Back up the Key Trustee Server:


Select the Key Trustee Server service configuration that you wish to
                            back up.


From the Actions menu, select Create
                                Backup on Active Server (or Create Backup on
                                Passive Server) .
A successfully completed backup of the Key Trustee Server is
                            indicated by the message Command Create Backup on Active Server
                                finished successfully on service keytrustee_server.
                        



Add your internal parcel repository to Cloudera Manager following the
                    instructions in Configuring a Local Parcel Repository (see Configuring
                        Cloudera Manager to Use an Internal Remote Parcel Repository ).

Download, distribute, and activate the latest Key Trustee Server parcel on the
                    cluster containing the Key Trustee Server host, following the instructions in
                        Step 6: Access Parcels.

importantThe KEYTRUSTEE parcel in Cloudera
                        Manager is not the Key Trustee Server parcel; it is the Key Trustee
                        KMS parcel. The parcel name for Key Trustee Server is
                            KEYTRUSTEE_SERVER
noteDo not accept the prompt from CM to perform a
                        rolling restart. Instead, restart the KTS services manually, beginning with
                        active instance followed by the passive instance(s).



If the Key Trustee Server active or passive database does not start properly after
                upgrade from 5.x, 6.x or 7.0 to 7.1, manually restart the Key Trustee Server service
                to correct the problem: Key Trustee Server service > Actions > Restart.


Related informationUpgrading a ClusterUpgrading Cloudera ManagerUpgrading Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee ServerMigrating Unmanaged Key Trustee Server to Cloudera ManagerConfiguring a Local Parcel RepositoryStep 6: Access ParcelsParent topic: Step 5: After You Upgrade Cloudera Manager