Clean the HBase Master procedure storeCloudera Docs
Clean the HBase Master procedure store
HBase Master procedures changed after HBase 2.1, therefore the procedure store must
        be cleaned before upgrading from CDH 6 to CDP.

From HBase 2.2 it is changed how HBase Master performs internal, housekeeping
                operations such as table creation or region removal. As a result if a procedure is
                started in HBase 2.1 (CDH 6 version), it cannot be continued after upgrading to
                HBase 2.2 (CDP version).
To prevent such cases you must clean the HMase Master procedure store before starting
                the upgrade and you can find this functionality from Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 and
                above.


In Cloudera Manager, select the HBase service.

Click Actions >  Cleanup Master Procedures Before Upgrade
HBase Master rules are stopped and restarted in a so-called upgrade
                    mode. In this mode HBase Masters are waiting for all ongoing procedures to
                    finish. Once an HBase Master procedure store is empty, its HBase Master quits
                    automatically.
Optional: 
If the cleanup command fails, check if there are any stuck procedures that need
                    to be cleaned manually before upgrade. 
If the command fails, the following error message is displayed: 
                        Failed to prepare HBase for the upgrade. There might be some HBase Master
                        procedures which haven’t been finished in time. Please make sure you clean
                        these procedures before you would continue the upgrade.For
                        more information, see Using the HBCK2 tool to remediate HBase
                            clusters.

Start the upgrade.

Find the Other Tasks section of the Upgrade
                    Wizard.

Check the Yes, I have run the "Cleanup master procedure before
                        upgrade" action, it finished successfully and I haven't started HBase Master
                        since then.






Continue the upgrade using the Cloudera Manager upgrade wizard.

Related informationUsing the HBCK2 tool to remediate HBase clustersParent topic: Checking Apache HBase