Step 5: After You Upgrade Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Step 5: After You Upgrade Cloudera Manager





Loading Filters ...


7.7.1 7.6.7 7.6.1
          7.5.1 7.4.4 7.3.1 7.2.4 7.1.4 7.1.3 7.1.2 7.1.1 7.0.3 6.3.4 6.3.3
          6.3.1 6.3.0 6.2.1 6.2.0 6.1.1 6.1.0 6.0.1 6.0.0

6.3.4 6.3.3 6.3.2 6.3.1 6.3.0
          6.2.1 6.2.0 6.1.1 6.1.0 6.0.2 6.0.1
7.1.8 7.1.7.1000 7.1.7 7.1.6 7.1.5
          7.1.4 7.1.3 7.1.2 7.1.1 
7.1.7.2000
7.7.1 7.6.7 7.6.1 7.5.1 7.4.4 7.4.3 7.3.1 7.2.4 7.1.4 7.1.3 7.1.2 7.1.1
        

Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.


noteCloudera Manager 7.7.3 should only be used when
          you need to use Python 3.8 for the Cloudera Manager agents. You must install Python 3.8 on
          all hosts before installing or upgrading to Cloudera Manager 7.7.3. Cloudera Manager
          7.7.3-CHF4 supports only RHEL 8.4, RHEL 8.6, RHEL 7.9, and SLES 15 SP4. See the CDP Private Cloud Base Installation Guide for more
          information.


warningUpgrades from Cloudera Manager 5.12 and lower to
          Cloudera Manager 7.1.1 or higher are not supported 


importantUpgrading Cloudera Manager to version 7.7.1 or
          higher from clusters where CDH 5.x is deployed is not supported. To
          upgrade such clusters: 
Upgrade Cloudera Manager to version 6.3.4.
Upgrade CDH to version 6.3.4
Upgrade Cloudera Manager to version 7.6.5 or higher 



warningFor upgrades from CDH clusters with Cloudera
          Navigator to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1 (or higher) clusters where
          Navigator is to be migrated to Apache Atlas, the cluster must have
          Kerberos enabled before upgrading. 


warningBefore upgrading CDH 5 clusters with Sentry to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.x
        clusters where Sentry privileges are to be transitioned to Apache Ranger:
The cluster must have Kerberos enabled. 
Verify that HDFS gateway roles exist on the hosts that runs the Sentry service. 

importantIf HDFS ACL sync is enabled (hdfs_sentry_sync_enable=true) on the CDH
        cluster, then you must install Ranger RMS to support the same functionality. For steps to
        install Ranger RMS, see Installing Ranger RMS. 


noteIf the cluster you are upgrading will include Atlas, Ranger, or
          both, the upgrade wizard deploys one infrastructure Solr service to
          provide a search capability of the audit logs through the Ranger Admin
          UI and/or to store and serve Atlas metadata. Cloudera recommends that
          you do not use this service for customer workloads to avoid
          interference with audit and timeline performance. 



Upgrade Key Trustee Server to 7.1.xHow to upgrade Key Trustee Server to CDP Private Cloud 7.1.x.Upgrade Navigator Encrypt to 7.1.xHow to upgrade Navigator Encrypt from CDH to CDP Private Cloud 7.1.x.Upgrading Cloudera Navigator Key HSMUpgrading Key Trustee KMSUpgrading from CDH to CDP automatically replaces your existing Key Trustee KMS service   with Ranger KMS. Your Key Trustee KMS ACLs are converted to Ranger policies.Parent topic: Upgrading Cloudera Manager 6
Perform Post-Upgrade Steps


If you upgraded the JDK, do the following: 
If the Cloudera Manager Server host is also running a Cloudera
              Manager Agent, restart the Cloudera Manager Server:
Restart the Cloudera Manager
        Server.sudo systemctl restart cloudera-scm-server

Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and set the
                Java Home Directory property in the host configuration:
Go to Home > All
                      Hosts > Configuration.
Set the value to the path to the new JDK. 
Click Save Changes.

Restart all services: 
On the
                      Home > Status
                  tab, click 
                  next to the cluster name, select Restart and
                  confirm.




Start the Cloudera Management Service and
          adjust any configurations when prompted. 
Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
Select
                Clusters > Cloudera
                Management Service.
Select
                Actions > Start.


Add and configure the Stub DFS
          service and reset the dependent services:
Add the Stub DFS service to each cluster managed by Cloudera
              Manager that contains the services returned by the query you ran
              when upgrading the Cloudera Manager server. (Step 4, on the Upgrade the Cloudera Manager Server page.) 
In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to the status page
                  the cluster.
Click the Actions menu and select Add
                    Service. 
Select the Stub DFS service.
Click Continue.The
                      Assign Roles page
                  displays.
Accept the role assignments, or change them if
                  necessary.
Click Continue.Cloudera Manager
                    adds the Stub DFS service.

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, for each of these
              services, go to the Configuration tab and
              set the configuration property hdfs_service to
                Stub DFS. For example: 

If your deployment
          uses LDAP, you may see that its health test has a
            Disabled status, you can configure an LDAP
          Bind Distinguished Name and password to enable the health test. In
            the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to
                Administration > Settings > External
                Authentication and set the following
            parameters: 
LDAP Bind Distinguished Name for
                  Monitoring
LDAP Bind Password for Monitoring

If your deployment
          uses LDAP, you may see that its health test has a
            Disabled status, you can configure an LDAP
          Bind Distinguished Name and password to enable the health test. In
            the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to
                Administration > Settings > External
                Authentication and set the following
            parameters: 
LDAP Bind Distinguished Name for
                  Monitoring
LDAP Bind Password for Monitoring
If these parameters are left blank, Cloudera Manager
            attempts to use the bind credentials specified for
            authentication.
If you have
          deployed Apache Atlas in the cluster, restart the Apache Atlas
          service.
If you have
          deployed Kafka in the cluster, perform a rolling restart the Kafka
          service.
If Cloudera Manager reports stale configurations after the
          upgrade, you might need to restart the cluster services and redeploy
          the client configurations. If any managed cluster includes the Hive
          and YARN components, this is required. If you will also be upgrading
          CDH, this step is not required. Stale configurations can occur after a Cloudera Manager upgrade
            when a default configuration value has changed, which is often
            required to fix a serious problem. Configuration changes that result
            in Cloudera Manager reporting stale configurations are described the
              release notes:

If you are using Streams Messaging Manager, you need to configure
          database related configuration properties. 
noteIf you are also upgrading your distribution to Runtime, you
              can choose to skip database configuration and complete it during
              the upgrade to Runtime.

Select the Streams Messaging Manager service.
Go to Configuration.
Find and configure the following properties:
Streams Messaging Manager Database User
                      Password
Streams Messaging Manager Database
                      Type
Streams Messaging Manager Database
                      Name
Streams Messaging Manager Database
                      User
Streams Messaging Manager Database
                      Host
Streams Messaging Manager Database Port
                    

Click Save Changes.


If you are using Schema Registry, you need to configure database
          related configuration properties. 
noteIf you are also upgrading your distribution to Runtime, you
              can choose to skip database configuration now and complete it
              during the upgrade to Runtime.

Select the Schema Registry service.
Go to Configuration.
Find and configure the following properties:
Schema Registry Database User
                      Password
Schema Registry Database Type
Schema Registry Database Name
Schema Registry Database User
Schema Registry Database Host
Schema Registry Database Port 

Click Save Changes.


On the
              Home > Status
          tab, click  next to the cluster name,
          select Restart and confirm.
On the
              Home > Status
          tab, click  next to the cluster name,
          select Deploy Client Configuration and confirm.
 If you
            disabled any backup or snapshot jobs before the upgrade, now
          is a good time to re-enable them
If you
          deleted any Hive Replication schedules before the Cloudera Manager
          upgrade, re-create them now. 
 The Cloudera Manager upgrade is now complete. If Cloudera
          Manager is not working correctly, or the upgrade did not complete, see
            Troubleshooting a Cloudera Manager Upgrade.



