CDH 6 to CDP Private Cloud Base post-upgrade transition stepsCloudera Docs
CDH 6 to CDP Private Cloud Base post-upgrade transition
    steps
You need to understand the upgrade configuration changes and perform
    tasks related to Hive, Impala, Solr, and other components. CDP does not
    support some features in CDH clusters, but alternatives might
    suffice.




Update permissions for Replication Manager serviceAfter the upgrade process is complete, you must update the     permissions in the Ranger audit log path in HDFS, so that the data     replication using Replication Manager works as expected.Migrating Spark workloads to CDPMigrating Spark workloads from CDH or HDP to CDP involves learning the Spark semantic     changes in your source cluster and the CDP target cluster. You get details about how to handle     these changes. Apache Hive Expedited Migration TasksIf you chose to expedite the Hive upgrade process by postponing migration of your tables   and databases, you need to identify any problems in tables and get help with fixing those problems   before migrating the tables to CDP. You then need to migrate these tables to CDP before you can   use them.Apache Hive Changes in CDPYou need to know where your tables are located and the property changes that the upgrade   process makes. You need to perform some post-migration tasks before using Hive tables and handle   semantic changes.Apache Hive Post-Upgrade TasksA successful upgrade requires performing a number of procedures that you can follow   using step-by-step instructions. Important configuration tasks set up security on your cluster.   You learn about semantic changes that might affect your applications, and see how to find your   tables or move them. You find out about the Hive Warehouse Connector (HWC) to access files from   Spark. Apache Impala changes in CDPYou need to understand changes that affect Impala after you upgrade from CDH 5.13-5.16   or CDH 6.1 or later to CDP Private Cloud Base. The version of Impala you used in CDH 5.11 - 5.16 or 6.1 or    later changes to Impala 3.4 when you upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base.Hue post-upgrade tasksReview the changes for the Hive editor and the Security Browser after upgrading from CDH   5 or CDH 6 to CDP to avoid access issues.Importing Sentry privileges into Ranger policiesHow to complete the process of translating Sentry privileges into Ranger         policies.Apache Knox - create plugin audit directoryTo create hdfs audit directories, you must create the Ranger Knox plugin audit         directory manually, post-upgrade.Apache Ranger TLS Post-Upgrade TasksMigrating ACLs from Key Trustee KMS to Ranger KMSYou must perform the following procedures to migrate ACLs from Key Trustee Key     Management Server (KMS) to Ranger KMS.Apache Hadoop YARN default value changesA list of default value changes when upgrading from CDH to CDP.Upgrade Notes for Apache Kudu 1.15 / CDP 7.1Learn about the most important Kudu relatd changes when upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base   7.1.Apache HBase post-upgrade tasksAfter upgrading from CDH to CDP Private Cloud Base, there are     certain tasks that you need to perform before you can start using the HBase cluster. Configure SMM to monitor SRM replicationsFollowing a successful upgrade, if you want to use SMM to monitor SRM replications,     you must reconnect the two services. This is done by enabling the STREAMS_REPLICATION_MANAGER     Service SMM property which is disabled by default. Configure SMM's service dependency on Schema RegistryFollowing a successful upgrade, the integration between the SMM and Schema Registry     services is disabled. If you have previously enabled integration you must re-enable it following     an upgrade. This can be done by selecting the Schema Registry Service     checkbox.Apache Sqoop Changes After upgrading from CDH to CDP, Sqoop action errors are not logged due to an change         in the log4j configuration. You must configure Oozie to log Sqoop action errors in the Oozie         launcher log.Cloudera Search changesLearn about the most important Search related changes when upgrading to CDP Private   Cloud Base 7.1.