Back Up the Cloudera Manager DatabasesCloudera Docs
Back Up the Cloudera Manager Databases
During the upgrade, Cloudera Manager modifies the schema of the Cloudera Manager
    database. In case of failures during the upgrade, it may be necessary to rollback to the
    previous version of Cloudera Manager while addressing the upgrade failures.
When performing a rollback to a previous version, the Cloudera Manager Database must be
      restored to the previous database schema. For this reason, you must do the Cloudera Manager
      database backup, so that it can be restored if a rollback is necessary.
tip
You can get the name, user, and password properties for the Cloudera Manager database from
        the /etc/cloudera-scm-server/db.properties file:
com.cloudera.cmf.db.name=scm
com.cloudera.cmf.db.user=scm
com.cloudera.cmf.db.password=NnYfWIjlbk


Back up the Cloudera Manager server database as per the
        instructions provided in your respective database documentation on how to backup and restore
        the databases.
Back up All other Cloudera Manager databases - Use the database information that
          you collected in a previous step. You may
        need to contact your database administrator to obtain the passwords.These databases can
          include the following: 
Cloudera Manager Server - Contains all the information about services
        you have configured and their role assignments, all configuration
        history, commands, users, and running processes. This relatively small
        database (< 100 MB) is the most important to back up.importantWhen you restart processes, the
          configuration for each of the services is redeployed using information
          saved in the Cloudera Manager database. If this information is not
          available, your cluster cannot start or function correctly. You must
          schedule and maintain regular backups of the Cloudera Manager database
          to recover the cluster in the event of the loss of this database.
        
Oozie Server - Contains Oozie workflow, coordinator, and bundle data.
        Can grow very large. (Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH 6
        clusters.)
Sqoop Server - Contains entities such as the connector, driver, links
        and jobs. Relatively small. (Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH
        6 clusters.)
Reports Manager - Tracks disk utilization and processing activities
        over time. Medium-sized.
Hive Metastore Server - Contains Hive metadata. Relatively small.
Hue Server - Contains user account information, job submissions, and
        Hive queries. Relatively small.
Sentry Server - Contains
        authorization metadata. Relatively small.
Cloudera Navigator Audit Server
        - Contains auditing information. In large clusters, this database can
        grow large.(Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH 6
        clusters.)
Cloudera Navigator Metadata
        Server - Contains authorization, policies, and audit report metadata.
        Relatively small.(Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH 6
        clusters.)
DAS PostgreSQL server  - Contains
        Hive and Tez event logs and DAG information. Can grow very large.
Ranger Admin - Contains
        administrative information such as Ranger users, groups, and access
        policies. Medium-sized.
Streaming Components:
Schema Registry - Contains the schemas and their metadata, all the
            versions and branches. You can use either MySQL, Postgres, or
            Oracle. importantFor the Schema Registry database, you
              must set collation to be case sensitive.
Streams Messaging Manager Server - Contains Kafka metadata, stores
            metrics, and alert definitions. Relatively small.


For more information about the number of databases that should be backed up, and restored
          if necessary, see Required Databases.



Parent topic: Step 2: Backing Up Cloudera Manager 6