Plan your scheduler transitionCloudera Docs
Plan your scheduler transition
Before starting the scheduler transition, you must learn about what Fair Scheduler
  configuration can be converted into a Capacity Scheduler configuration prior to the upgrade, what
  configuration requires manual configuration and fine-tuning. 
The features of Capacity Scheduler are not exactly the same as the features of Fair Scheduler.
   Hence, the fs2cs conversion utility cannot convert every Fair Scheduler
   configuration into a Capacity Scheduler configuration. You must learn about what properties are
   auto-converted and what requires manual configuration. In addition, there are Fair Scheduler
   features that do not have an equivalent feature in Capacity Scheduler. 

Scheduler transition limitationsThere are some hard limitations on converting a Fair Scheduler configuration into a   Capacity Scheduler configuration as these two schedulers are not equivalent. Learning about these   major limitations can help you understand the challenges you might encounter after the scheduler   transitions.Placement Rules transitionPlacement rules transition is part of the Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler     transition process. Learn about the limitations of this transition and how you can overcome     them.Auto-converted Fair Scheduler propertiesThe fs2cs conversion utility automatically converts certain Fair Scheduler properties     into Capacity Scheduler properties. Reviewing the list of auto-converted properties enables you     to verify the conversion and plan the manual fine-tuning that requires to be done after the     upgrade is completed. Fair Scheduler features and conversion detailsCertain Fair Scheduler properties cannot be auto-converted by the fs2cs conversion     utility. Review the list of these properties and if they are supported in Capacity Scheduler and     by Queue Manager UI to learn how you can configure them.Parent topic: Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler transition