Manually add the configurations of yarn-site.xmlCloudera Docs
Manually add the configurations of yarn-site.xml
Once the upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base is completed, you
        have to manually add the yarn-site.xml configurations using Cloudera
        Manager Advanced configuration snippet (Safety Valves). 

The fs2cs conversion utility generates two output files:
                    capacity-scheduler.xml and yarn-site.xml. The
                    capacity-scheduler.xml file can be uploaded using the Upgrade
                Wizard, but the configurations in the yarn-site.xml have to be
                manually added once the upgrade is completed. 




Use the fs2cs conversion utility to generate the
                            capacity-scheduler.xml and
                            yarn-site.xml output files.


Complete the upgrade process.




In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Search for yarn-site, and find the YARN
                        Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                        yarn-site.xml.

Copy the content of the yarn-site.xml output file.

Click View as XML  and paste the copied content.
The yarn-site.xml file can contain the following
                            configurations:
Continuous scheduling enabled/disabled
Continuous scheduling interval
Preemption
Preemption enabled/disabled
Wait time before preemption
Wait time before next starvation check

Assign multiple enabled/disabled
Maximum number of heartbeat assignments
Locality threshold per node
Locality threshold per rack
Size-based weight enabled/disabled
Resource calculator class
Async scheduling enabled/disabled


Manually remove the following invalid tags: 

header
configuration tags
final tags
source tags


Click Save Changes.

Restart the YARN service.

Manually tune the configuration generated by the fs2cs conversion
            utility using Queue Manager UI and Cloudera Manager Advanced configuration snippet
            (Safety Valves).

Parent topic: Manual configuration of scheduler properties