Manual configuration of scheduler propertiesCloudera Docs
Manual configuration of scheduler properties
After upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base, you must manually
        add the content of the yarn-site.xml output file, and then fine-tune the
        scheduler configurations using the YARN Queue Manager UI to ensure that the resulting
        configurations suit your requirements. You can use Cloudera Manager Advanced configuration
        snippet (Safety Valve) to configure a property that is missing from the YARN Queue Manager
        UI.
The features of Capacity Scheduler are not exactly the same as the features of Fair
            Scheduler. Hence, the conversion utility cannot convert every Fair Scheduler
            configuration into a Capacity Scheduler configuration. Therefore, you must manually tune
            the scheduler configurations to ensure that the resulting scheduling configuration fits
            your organization’s internal goals and SLAs after conversion. If needed, further change
            the scheduler properties in the capacity-scheduler.xml and
                yarn-site.xml output files generated by the fs2cs
            conversion utility. For information about the Fair Scheduler properties that are
            auto-converted by the fs2cs conversion utility, see Auto-converted
                Fair Scheduler properties.
You can configure the properties manually using the YARN Queue Manager UI. If you see any
            properties that are unavailable in the Queue Manager UI, you can use Cloudera Manager
            configuration snippet (Safety Valves) to configure them. importantYou must
                not use the Queue Manager UI and Cloudera Manager Safety Valves at the same time as
                safety valves overwrite the configuration set using Queue Manager UI.

Manually add the configurations of yarn-site.xmlOnce the upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base is completed, you         have to manually add the yarn-site.xml configurations using Cloudera         Manager Advanced configuration snippet (Safety Valves). Use YARN Queue Manager UI to configure scheduler propertiesAfter upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base, you must configure         the Capacity Scheduler properties using the output files generated by the             fs2cs conversion utility. You can configure the properties manually using         the YARN Queue Manager UI service.Use Cloudera Manager Safety Valves to configure scheduler propertiesCertain scheduler properties can neither be converted by the         fs2csconversion utility nor be configured using the YARN Queue Manager UI         service. After upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base you must manually         configure these properties using the Cloudera Manager advanced configuration snippet (Safety         Valves).Parent topic: Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler transition