Setting user limits within a queueCloudera Docs
Setting user limits within a queue
Set a minimum percentage of resources allocated to each leaf queue user.
Minimum User Limit 
The Minimum User Limit (minimum-user-limit-percent) property can be used
        to set the minimum percentage of resources allocated to each leaf queue user. The Minimum
        User Percentage is a soft limit on the smallest amount of resources a single user should get
        access to if they are requesting it. For example, if you set the Minimum User Percentage
        property to 10%, 10 users get 10% each, assuming they are all requesting it; this value is a
        soft limit because if one of the users asks for less capacity, you can place more users in
        the queue.
For example, to enable equal sharing of the services leaf queue capacity
        among five users, you must set the Minimum User Limit value to 20%.
To configure user limits based on this example, perform the following:

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
          service. A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the Overview tab. 
Click on the three vertical dots on the Services queue and select
          Edit Queue Properties option.
In the Queue Properties dialog-box, enter 20
          in the Minimum User Limit text box. 
Click Save.


User Limit Factor
You can use the User Limit Factor (user-limit-factor) to control the maximum amount
        of resources that a single user can consume. User Limit Factor is set as a multiple of the
        queues minimum capacity where a user limit factor of one means the user can consume the
        entire minimum capacity of the queue. If the user limit factor is greater than 1, it is
        possible for the user consumption to grow into maximum capacity and if the value is set to
        less than 1, such as 0.5, a user can only obtain half of the minimum capacity of the queue.
        If you want a user to obtain the maximum capacity of a queue, set a value greater than 1 to
        allow the minimum capacity to be overtaken by a user that many times.
       
The following table shows how the queue resources are adjusted as users submit jobs to a
        queue with a minimum user limit percentage is set to 20%: Table 1. Minimum User Limit

Minimum user limit percent = 20



1st user submits job
Sole user gets 100% of the queue capacity


2nd user submits job
Each user equally shares 50% of the queue capacity


3rd user submits job
Each user equally shares 30.33% of the queue capacity


4th user submits job
Each user equally shares 25% of the queue capacity


5th user submits job
Each user equally shares 20% of the queue capacity


6th user submits job
6th user must wait for queue capacity to free up



Queue resources are adjusted in the same manner for a single user submitting multiple jobs
          in succession. If no other users are requesting queue resources, the first job receives
          100% of the queue capacity. When the user submits a second job, each job receives 50% of
          queue capacity. When the user submits a third job, each job receives 33% of queue
          capacity. If a fourth user then submits a job, each job would receive 25% of queue
          capacity. When the number of jobs submitted by all users reaches a total of five, each job
          will receive 20% of queue capacity, and subsequent users must wait for queue capacity to
          free up (assuming preemption is not enabled). 
The Capacity Scheduler also manages resources for decreasing numbers of users. As users’
          applications finish running, other existing users with outstanding requirements begin to
          reclaim that share.
Note that despite this sharing among users, the FIFO application scheduling order of
          Capacity Scheduler does not change. This guarantees that users cannot monopolize queues by
          submitting new applications continuously. Applications (and thus the corresponding users)
          that are submitted first always get a higher priority than applications that are submitted
          later.

Capacity Scheduler’s leaf queues can also use the user-limit-factor property to control user
        resource allocations. This property denotes the fraction of queue capacity that any single
        user can consume up to a maximum value, regardless of whether or not there are idle
        resources in the cluster.
To configure the maximum limit (user-limit-factor) based on this example, perform the
      following:

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
        service. A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the Overview tab. 
Click on the three vertical dots on the queue you want to set limit and select
          Edit Queue Properties option.
In the Queue Properties dialog-box, enter 1
        in the User Limit Factor text box. 
Click Save.

The default value of 1 means that any single user in the queue can, at the
        most, only occupy only the queue’s configured capacity. This prevents users in a single
        queue from monopolizing resources across all queues in a cluster. Setting the value to
          2 restricts the queue's users to twice the queue’s configured capacity.
        Setting it to a value of 0.5 restricts any user from using resources beyond
        half of the queue capacity.


Parent topic: Configuring per queue properties