Configuring per queue propertiesCloudera Docs
Configuring per queue properties
Queue properties contain the settings that define the behavior of the queue. Using queue properties, you can define the setting that need not inherit properties directly from the parent queue and define the setting specific to the queue.

In Cloudera Manager, you can use the Queue Properties to view and configure the
        queue properties.


In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
          service.   


Click on the three vertical dots on the queue and select the Edit Queue
            Properties option. 






In the Queue Properties window, enter the value of the property
          and click Save. 
 


Setting user limits within a queueSet a minimum percentage of resources allocated to each leaf queue user.Setting Maximum Application limit for a specific queueYou can set the maximum number of applications that can run in a specific queue. This     limit overrides it’s parent queue limit if this specific queue level value is lesser than what     is set for the parent queue.  Setting Application-Master resource-limit for a specific queueThe Application Master (AM) resource limit can be used to set a maximum percentage of cluster resources allocated specifically to Application Masters. The default value is 10% and exists to avoid cross-application deadlocks where significant resources in the cluster are occupied entirely by the Containers running Application Masters.    Setting maximum parallel application limits for a specific queueYou can set the maximum number of applications that can run in a specific queue. This     limit overrides it’s parent queue limit if this specific queue level value is lesser than what     is set for the parent queue.Controlling access to queues using ACLsUse Access-control lists (ACLs) to control access rights to users and administrators to     the Capacity Scheduler queues.Enabling preemption for a specific queueCapacity Scheduler Preemption allows higher-priority applications to preempt lower-priority applications.     Enabling Intra-Queue Preemption for a specific queueIntra-queue preemption prevents resource imbalances in a queue. Setting ordering policies within a specific queueSet FIFO (First In, First Out) or Fair scheduling policies in Capacity Scheduler depending on     your requirements.