Partition configurationCloudera Docs
Partition
      configuration
You can partition a cluster into sub-clusters so that jobs run on nodes with specific
      characteristics. You can configure these partitions, so that you run YARN applications on
      cluster nodes of the specified partition. 
note The term Partitions is used instead of Node Labels to be
            consistent with the YARN
            terminology.
Partition can be specified as exclusive or
               non-exclusive/shareable:

exclusive - Access is restricted to applications running in
                  queues associated with the partition.
               
non-exclusive - If idle capacity is available on the partition,
                  resources are shared with all applications in the cluster. 

The fundamental unit of scheduling in YARN is the queue. The capacity of each queue
            specifies the percentage of cluster resources that are available for applications
            submitted to the queue. Queues can be set up in a hierarchy that reflects the resource
            requirements and access restrictions required by the various organizations, groups, and
            users that utilize cluster resources.
Using partition, you can divide a cluster into sub-clusters so that jobs can be run on
            partitions with specific characteristics. For example, you can use a partition to run
            memory-intensive jobs only on nodes with a larger amount of RAM. Partitions can be
            assigned to cluster nodes, and specified as exclusive or non-exclusive. You can then
            associate partition with capacity scheduler queues. Each node can be associated with
            only one partition.

Partition Type:
            Exclusive
When a queue is associated with one or more exclusive partitions, all applications
            submitted by the queue
            will
            have exclusive access to the nodes in those partitions.



Partition Type: Non-exclusive

When a queue is associated with one or more non-exclusive partitions, all applications
            submitted by the queue get first priority on nodes in those partitions. If idle capacity
            is available on those partition nodes, resources are shared with other applications in
            the cluster. Non-labeled applications are preempted if labeled applications request new
            resources on the labeled nodes.






Queues without associate partition
If no partition is assigned to a
                              queue, the applications submitted by the queue can run on any node
                              without a partition, and on nodes with non-exclusive partitions if
                              idle resources are available.

Preemption
Labeled applications that request
                                 labeled resources preempt non-labeled applications on labeled
                                 nodes. If a labeled resource is not explicitly requested, the
                                 normal rules of preemption apply. Non-labeled applications cannot
                                 preempt labeled applications running on labeled nodes.


Enabling node labels on a cluster to configure partitionYou can configure partitions on a cluster by making configuration changes on the YARN       ResourceManager host. Creating partitionsYou must first create partitions to assign them to nodes and associate it with       queues.Assigning or unassigning a node to a partitionYou can assign or unassign a node to an existing partition.Viewing partitionsYou can view the list of available partitions in the cluster. For each partition, it       lists the number of associated nodes under the Hosts column along with       the partition type and capacity.Associating partitions with queuesYou can use partitions to run YARN applications on cluster nodes that have a         specified partition.Disassociating partitions from queuesYou can disassociate a partition from the queue. You should disassociate a partition       before you delete the queue. Before disassociating a partition from a queue, you should remove       the partition capacity for that queue by setting it to zero.Deleting partitionsIn this release, due to a known issue, it is not recommended to delete a       partition if it is associated with queues and the queues have capacities configured for that       partition.Setting a default partition expressionYou can set a default partition on a queue. The default partition is used if no       partition is specified when the application is submitted to the queue. By default, this field       is empty, so applications get containers from nodes without a partition or label.Using partitions when submitting a jobYou can use various methods to specify partitions when submitting jobs.