Setting queue prioritiesCloudera Docs
Setting queue priorities
By setting queue priorities you can ensure that applications can access cluster
        resources. 

Although the preemption feature, which is enabled by default, improves
                cluster resources use, there are some use cases where applications might not have
                access to cluster resources without setting priorities:
Long-running applications:
Without setting queue priorities, long-running applications in queue
                            that are under capacity and with lower relative resource use may not
                            release cluster resources until they finish running.
Applications that require large containers:
The issue with long-running applications is exacerbated for applications
                            that require large containers. With short-running applications, previous
                            containers may eventually finish running and free the cluster resources
                            for applications with large containers. But with long-running services
                            in the cluster, the large containers may never get sufficiently large
                            resources on any nodes. 
Hive LLAP
Hive LLAP (Low-Latency Analytical Processing) enables you to run Hive
                            queries with low-latency in near real-time. To ensure low-latency, you
                            should set the priority of the queue used for LLAP to a higher priority,
                            especially if your cluster includes long-running applications. 

For more information, see Configuring preemption and Enabling
                    Intra-Queue preemption


Configure preemption as described in Configuring preemption.


In Cloudera Manager navigate to Cluster >  YARN Queue Manager UI.
The Overview tab is opened, displaying a hierarchical view of the
                    queues.

Find the queue for which you want to set queue priority and click the three
                    vertical dots  next to its name.

Select Edit Queue Properties.

In the Resource Allocation section find the
                        Queue Priority property.

Set the queue priority.
By default all queues are set to a priority of 0. Higher
                    numbers indicate higher priority.

Click Save.


Related informationConfiguring preemptionEnabling Intra-Queue preemptionParent topic: Managing queues