Converting a queue to a Managed Parent QueueCloudera Docs
Converting a queue to a Managed Parent Queue
In absolute and relative modes, you have to create Managed Parent Queues to enable
        dynamic queue creation. You can do that through the YARN Queue Manager UI.

Note that the queue properties that is set at the Managed Parent Queue level is
                applied to all of its leaf queues.importantOnce dynamic child creation
                    is enabled for a queue you cannot disable it. If you enable it by mistake you
                    have to delete the queue and its child queues and then recreate them.


In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN Queue Manager
                    UI.
A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the
                        Overview tab.

Find the queue for which you want to enable the dynamic child creation
                    feature.

Select the More Options menu and select
                        Enable Dynamic Child Creation.






Set the Minimum and Maximum capacities that will be applied for every dynamic
                    child queue under that particular parent queue.

Save the minimum and maximum capacity for the queue with the default values
                        that copy the parent queue, or change them using the Auto Queue Creation
                        template (Technical Preview) feature.
Technical Preview: This is a technical preview feature and considered
                        under development. Do not use this in your production systems. To share your
                        feedback, contact Support by logging a case on our Cloudera Support Portal. Technical preview features
                        are not guaranteed troubleshooting guidance and fixes.


Click Save.

To define a placement rule that could lead to dynamically created child queues,
            ensure that during placement rule creation you select the Create the target
                queue if it does not exist? option and provide a Managed Parent Queue as
            the parent queue. For more information, see Manage placement
            rules.

Related informationManaging placement rulesParent topic: Managing dynamic queues