Managing dynamic queuesCloudera Docs
Managing dynamic queues
Dynamic queues are created automatically during application runtime. They are deleted
  when the YARN service is restarted.
Dynamic queues are created during runtime automatically. Dynamic queues are not defined  in the
    capacity-scheduler.xml configuration file. Dynamic queues can be created under
   those static parents where auto dynamic child creation is allowed. Auto dynamic child creation
   has to be set explicitly using the YARN Queue Manager UI.
You can create dynamic queues  in two ways:
A dynamic queue path is specified by the submitter at the time of the job submission.
     Dynamic queues will be created if the auto dynamic child creation feature is enabled for the
     parent queue that was provided in the queue path.
A placement rule applies to the submitted job that could place it into a dynamic queue.
     Dynamic queue is created based on the predefined expression of the dynamic placement rule.

Based on your resource allocation mode, dynamic queues are managed differently:
In absolute and relative modes, when you enable the auto dynamic child creation feature for a
   queue, it becomes a Managed Parent Queue. It cannot have static child queues, queues under it can
   be created only dynamically. It allows 1-level dynamic queue nesting.
In the weight mode, there is no Managed Parent Queue. When you enable the auto dynamic child
   creation feature for a queue, it becomes a parent queue that can have both static and dynamic
   child queues. It allows 2-level dynamic queue nesting.
noteAlthough it is possible to use safety valve configuration snippets to configure dynamic
   queues, Cloudera recommends to use the YARN Queue Manager UI for dynamic queue configuration even
   if that leads to some limitations. 

Managed Parent QueuesManaged Parent Queues are auto dynamic child creation enabled queues in absolute and   relative resource allocation mode.Converting a queue to a Managed Parent QueueIn absolute and relative modes, you have to create Managed Parent Queues to enable         dynamic queue creation. You can do that through the YARN Queue Manager UI.Enabling dynamic child creation in weight modeIn the weight resource allocation mode, when you enable dynamic child creation for a         queue, it becomes a parent queue that can have both static and dynamic child queues. You can         enable that feature through the YARN Queue Manager UI.Disabling dynamic child creation in weight modeIn the weight resource allocation a dynamic child creation enabled parent queue can         have both static and dynamic child queues.  If you disable the dynamic child creation         feature for a parent queue its dynamic child queues are deleted, and it can have only static         queues. Managing dynamic child creation enabled parent queuesThe YARN Queue Manager UI in Cloudera Manager provides an overview of your queue         hierarchy where you can view and manage the parent queues for which dynamic child creation         is enabled.Managing dynamically created child queuesYARN Queue Manager UI provides an overview of your queue hierarchy where you can view         and manage your dynamically created child queues.Deleting dynamically created child queuesDynamically created child queues can be deleted automatically once they become inactive,   or manually with some limitations.