Setting Maximum Parallel ApplicationCloudera Docs
Setting Maximum Parallel Application 
You can set the maximum number of applications that can run at the same time in a
    cluster. Ensure you understand how the parallel application limits are inherited from the parent
    queue in the queue hierarchy before using this option.
You can set parallel application limits for all queues, all users, and at the user level.
      When the maximum parallel applications limit is reached, application submissions are not
      rejected and instead they stay in the ACCEPTED state until they are
      eligible to run.
The evaluation of the limits happens in the following order:
Maximum Applications - if the limit is exceeded, the submission is rejected
          immediately.
Maximum Parallel Applications - if the limit is exceeded, the submission is
          accepted, but the application does not transition to the RUNNING state. It stays in the
          ACCEPTED state until the queue or user limits are satisfied.
Maximum AM Resource Limit - if there are too many Application Masters running,
          the application stays in the ACCEPTED state until the resources become available.

Example - Application Limits
The maximum parallel application limit is an inherited property in the queue hierarchy. You
        can lower the limit down the hierarchy, but setting a higher value than its higher queue in
        the queue structure, the limit will not be effective. The following example provides
        information about how the parallel application limit is applied in a queue hierarchy. The
          Maximum Parallel Applications: All Queues value is set to
          250 at the scheduler level and 500 is set at
        the root level. 
Example queue hierarchy:
     


Maximum 250 applications can run parallel under the root.a queues. 
Maximum 50 applications can run parallel under the root.a.a1
          queues.
Maximum 10 applications can run parallel under the root.a.a1.a2
          queues.
Maximum 10 applications can run parallel under the root.a1.a2.a3
          queues. Even though the Maximum Parallel Applications
          limit is not set for .a3, the default value of 250 applies for that
          queue; however, the parent queue (root.a.a1.a2) has a lower value
          of 10, and the child .a3 queue cannot exceed that limit.
Maximum 10 applications can run parallel under the root.a1.a2.a3.a4
          queue. Even though the queue level limit is configured for 15 applications,
          the parents restrict this limit to 10.
Maximum 50 applications can run parallel under the root.a.b
          queue.


Example - User Limits

Scenario 1 - In this scenario, there are two users, User1 and
            User2. When you set the Maximum Parallel Applications: All
            Queues to 100 and Maximum Parallel Applications: All
            Users to 50, both User1 and User2 can
          have 50 applications running in parallel.
Scenario 2 - In this scenario, there are four users, User1, User2,
            User3, and User4. You can set the limits as follows: 

Maximum Parallel Applications: All Queues - 100 


Maximum Parallel Applications: All Users - 15


Maximum Parallel Applications: Per Users


User1 - 10


User 2 - 25



User1 can have 10 applications running in parallel.
            User2 can have 25 applications running in parallel.
            User3 and User4 can have 15 applications running
          in parallel.
Scenario 3: In this scenario, the Maximum Parallel
            Applications limit for root.a is set to 5. The
            Maximum Parallel Applications: Per Users  for
            User1 is set to 10. Even though User1 can run 10
          parallel applications, in the root.a queue,
            User1 can run only 5 maximum applications. User1
          can also run 5 more applications on some other queue. 
Scenario 4: In this scenario, the Maximum Parallel
            Applications limit for root.b is set to 20. The
            Maximum Parallel Applications: Per Users limit for
            User2 is set to 10. User2 can run 10 parallel
          applications, in the root.b queue. Some other users can run 10 more
          applications in the root.b queue.



Related informationSetting maximum parallel application limitsSetting maximum parallel application limitsYou can set the maximum number of applications limits for all queues, all users, and at     the user level. The maximum parallel application limit is inherited from the “root” queue level     and is lowered down in the queue hierarchy. The limit is checked in the queue hierarchy and the     lowest value is applied as the limit. Parent topic: Configuring scheduler properties at the global level