Changing resource allocation modeCloudera Docs
Changing resource allocation mode
There are three supported resource allocation modes: absolute, relative, and weight resource allocation mode. 
    When creating a new cluster, the default allocation mode is the relative resource allocation mode.  You can change the 
    resource allocation mode from the root queue by editing the queue properties using the Yarn Queue Manager UI. 

The way you specify how resources are allocated is done differently in each of
        the resource allocation modes:

Absolute resource allocation mode: In this mode, you specify the actual units
          of vcores and memory resources. It allows you to configure minimum resources independently
          for each queue.
Relative resource allocation mode: In this mode, you specify the percentage of
          the total resources used by each queue. 
Weight resource allocation mode: In this mode, you specify a weight to each
          queue. For example, a queue with weight 2 should receive approximately twice as many
          resources as a queue with weight 1. 

noteWhen migrating from a CDH cluster and performing the fs2cs
        scheduler conversion, the default resource allocation mode is weight mode. For more
        information see, Migrating Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler.



If you are changing to weight resource allocation mode, delete any managed parent
          queues.
If you are changing from weight resource allocation mode, delete any dynamic parent
          queues.



In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
          service.
A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the Overview tab.
        

Click on the three vertical dots on the root and select View >  Edit Queue Properties.
The Queue Properties dialog box is displayed.

Select the resource allocation mode.

Click Save.

Enter yes in the Switch Allocation Mode
          dialog box and click OK. 
As a result, Queue Manager calculates and updates the resource allocations for all the
          existing queues. If required, you can further  modify the resource
            allocation.

Click Save.

Restart YARN and YARN Queue Manager services.


Related informationResource allocation overviewAdding queues using YARN Queue Manager UIMigrating Fair Scheduler to Capacity SchedulerParent topic: Managing queues