Configuring preemptionCloudera Docs
Configuring preemption
Preemption allows applications of higher priority to preempt applications of lower
    priority. 

A scenario can occur in which a queue has a guaranteed level of cluster resources, but must
        wait to run applications because other queues are utilizing all of the available resources.
        If preemption is enabled, applications of higher priority do not have to wait because
        applications of lower priority have taken up the available capacity. When you enable
        Preemption (yarn.resourcemanager.scheduler.monitor.enable) underserved queues can
        begin to claim their allocated cluster resources almost immediately, without having to wait
        for other queues' applications to finish running.
You can use Priority Scheduling to run YARN applications at a higher priority, regardless
        of other applications that are already running in the cluster . For more information, see
          Setting global maximum application priority.
To configure  the Queue Preemption options on all queues, perform the following:


In Cloudera Manager, navigate to YARN >  Configuration.

Search for preemption.

Find the Capacity Scheduler Preemption property.

Ensure that it is checked, meaning that Preemption is enabled.

In Cloudera Manager, navigate to  Clusters >  YARN Queue Manager UI >  Configuration. 

 Configure the required preemption properties:

Preemption: Observe Only - Select the checkbox to run the policy, but not
              affect the cluster with preemption and stop events.
Preemption: Monitoring Interval (ms) - The time in milliseconds between
              invocations of this policy. Setting this value to a longer time interval causes the
              Capacity Monitor to run less frequently.
Preemption: Maximum Wait Before Kill (ms) - The time in milliseconds between
              requesting a preemption from an application and stopping the container. Setting this
              to a higher value gives applications more time to respond to preemption requests and
              gracefully release containers.
Preemption: Total Resources Per Round - The maximum percentage of resources
              preempted in a single round. You can use this value to restrict the pace at which
              containers are reclaimed from the cluster. After computing the total desired
              preemption, the policy scales it back to this limit.
Preemption: Over Capacity Tolerance - The maximum amount of resources above
              the target capacity ignored for preemption. The default value is 0.1, which means that
              the Resource Manager starts preemption for a queue only when it goes 10% above its
              guaranteed capacity. This avoids resource-rotation and aggressive preemption.
Preemption: Maximum Termination Factor - The maximum percentage of each
              queue's preemption target capacity that is preempted per cycle. You can increase this
              value to speed up resource reclamation.


Click Save.

For information about configuring preemption for a specific queue, see Configure preemption for a
            specific queue.



Parent topic: Configuring scheduler properties at the global level