CSP ArchitectureCloudera Docs
CSP Architecture
Cloudera Stream Processing (CSP) provides advanced messaging, stream processing and
  analytics capabilities powered by Apache Kafka as the core stream processing engine. It also
  provides streams management capabilities. Two streams management services have been added for
  Kafka around monitoring and replication. Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) provides a single
  monitoring dashboard for a Kafka cluster. Streams Replication Manager (SRM) provides enterprises
  with the ability to implement cross-cluster Kafka topic replication.
important
CSP 2.0.x installs Streaming components on CDH clusters. For information about installing
    Streaming components on CDP Private Cloud Base, see Runtime
     documentation for your software version. For information about installing Streaming
    components in CDP Public Cloud, see CDF for Data Hub documentation about Streams
    Messaging clusters. 

CSP is fully integrated with the enterprise platform services including Cloudera
   Manager (CM) for cluster management and monitoring, Apache Sentry for role based authorization
   and a new Schema Registry service that provide governance and schema management capabilities.
CSP consists of the following components and features:


New Kafka monitoring services powered by Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) delivered
     via a parcel


New Kafka replication services powered by Streams Replication Manager (SRM)
     delivered via parcel


A Schema Registry parcel that provides a centralized registry to manage schema for
     Apache Kafka and NiFi


Support for Apache Kafka 2.2.0 through CDH 6.3.0 or CDK 4.1
note
It is strongly recommended that you use CDH 6.3.0 or later with Apache Kafka included. If
      you are using CDH 5.13.0, you may use CDK 4.1.0 or later. 



Support for Kafka Streams


Cluster Management and monitoring with Cloudera Manager


Rich CDH cluster access control with Apache Sentry





CSP Parcels
CSP 2.0 was designed in modular form providing flexibility for the user to choose
    which services to install on CM managed cluster. CSP 2.0 provides two sets of capabilities:
    stream processing and streams management. Each set provides its own set of parcels. 
CSP Stream Processing Parcels

Kafka from CDH 6.3.0 or the CDK 4.1 Parcel 


Schema Registry Parcel

CSP Stream Management Parcels

SMM Parcel


SRM Parcel




Related informationRuntime documentationCDF for Data Hub documentation