Analytical ApplicationsCloudera Docs
Analytical Applications
This topic describes how to use an ML workspace to create long-running web
  applications.
About this task:
This feature gives data scientists a way to create ML web applications/dashboards and easily
   share them with other business stakeholders. Applications can range from single visualizations
   embedded in reports, to rich dashboard solutions such as Tableau. They can be interactive or
   non-interactive.
Applications stand alongside other existing forms of workloads in CML (sessions, jobs,
   experiments, models). Like all other workloads, applications must be created within the scope of
   a project. Each application is launched within its own isolated engine. Additionally, like
   models, engines launched for applications do not time out automatically. They will run as long as
   the web application needs to be accessible by any users and must be stopped manually when
   needed.
Before you begin:
Testing applications before you deploy
Before you deploy an application using the steps described here, make sure your application has
   been thoroughly tested. You can use sessions to develop, test, and debug your applications. You
   can test web apps by embedding them in sessions as described here: 
   https://docs.cloudera.com/machine-learning/cloud/projects/topics/ml-embedded-web-apps.html
    .
CML UICML APIv2

Go to a project's Overview page.
Click Applications.
Click New Application.
Fill out the following fields. 
Name: Enter a name for the application.
Subdomain: Enter a subdomain that will be used to construct the URL for the web
        application. For example, if you use test-app as the subdomain, the
        application will be accessible at
        test-app.<ml-workspace-domain-name>. Subdomains should be valid
         DNS hostname characters: letters from a to z, digits from 0 to 9, and the hyphen.
Description: Enter a description for the application.
Script: Select a script that hosts a web application on either
         CDSW_READONLY_PORT or CDSW_APP_PORT. Applications running
        on either of these ports are available to any users with at least read access to the
        project. The Python template project includes an entry.py script that you
        can use to test this out.noteCML does not prevent you from running an application that
         allows a read-only user (i.e. Viewers) to modify files belonging to the project. It is up
         to you to make the application truly read-only in terms of files, models, and other
         resources belonging to the project. 
Engine Kernel and Resource Profile: Select the kernel and computing resources
        needed for this application.
noteThe list of options here is specific to the default engine you have specified in your
          Project Settings: ML Runtimes or Legacy Engines. Engines allow kernel selection, while ML
          Runtimes allow Editor, Kernel, Variant, and Version selection. Resource Profile list is
          applicable for both ML Runtimes and Legacy Engines.

Set Environment Variables: Click Set Environment Variables,
        enter the name and value for the new application variable, and click
         Add. If there is a conflict between the project-level and
         application-level environment variables, the application-level environment variables
         override the project-level environment variables.



Click Create Application.


To create an application using the API, refer to this example:

Here is an example of using the Application API.
application_request = cmlapi.CreateApplicationRequest(
     name = "application_name",
     description = "application_description",
     project_id = project_id,
     subdomain = "application-subdomain",
     kernel = "python3",
     script = "entry.py",
     environment = {"KEY": "VAL"}
)
app = client.create_application(
     project_id = project_id,
     body = application_request
)


Results:
In a few minutes, you should see the application status change to Running on the
    Applications page. Click on the name of the application to access the web application
   interface.
What to do next:
You can Stop, Restart, or
    Delete an application from the Applications page.
If you want to make changes to an existing application, click Overview
   under the application name. Then go to the Settings tab to make any
   changes and update the application.

