LDAP General SettingsCloudera Docs
LDAP General Settings
Lists the general settings required to configure LDAP
    authentication.


LDAP Server URI: Required. The URI of the LDAP/Active
            Directory server against which Cloudera Machine Learning
            should authenticate. For example,
                ldaps://ldap.company.com:636.

Use Direct Bind: If checked, the username and password
            provided at login are used with the LDAP Username Pattern for
            binding to the LDAP server. If unchecked, Cloudera Machine Learning uses the search bind mechanism and two configurations,
            LDAP Bind DN and LDAP Bind Password, are required to perform the
            ldapsearch against the LDAP server. 

LDAP Bind DN: Required when using search bind. The DN to
            bind to for performing ldapsearch. For example,
              cn=admin,dc=company,dc=com.

LDAP Bind Password: Required when using search bind. This
            is the password for the LDAP Bind DN. 

LDAP Search Base: Required. The base DN from which to
            search for the provided LDAP credentials. For example,
              ou=Engineering,dc=company,dc=com.

LDAP User Filter: Required. The LDAP filter for searching
            for users. For example,
              (&(sAMAccountName={0})(objectclass=person)).
            The {0} placeholder will be replaced with the
            username provided at login.


LDAP User Username Attribute: Required. The case-sensitive
              username attribute of the LDAP directory service. This is used by
              Cloudera Machine Learning to perform the bind operation and
              extract the username from the response. Common values are
                uid, sAMAccountName, or
                userPrincipalName.



When you select Use Direct Bind, 
        Cloudera Machine Learning performs a direct bind to the LDAP server using the
          LDAP Username Pattern with the credentials provided on login (not
            LDAP Bind DN and LDAP Bind
            Password). 
By default, Cloudera Machine Learning performs an LDAP search
          using the bind DN and credentials specified for the LDAP
            Bind DN and LDAP Bind Password
          configurations. It searches the subtree, starting from the base DN
          specified for the LDAP Search Base field, for
          an entry whose attribute specified in LDAP User Username
            Attribute, has the same value as the username provided
          on login. Cloudera Machine Learning then validates the
          user-provided password against the DN found as a result of the
          search.

Parent topic: Configuring LDAP/Active Directory Authentication