Registering training data lineage using a linking fileCloudera Docs
Registering training data lineage using a linking file
The Machine Learning (ML) projects, model builds, model
    deployments, and associated metadata are tracked in Apache Atlas, which is
    available in the environment's SDX cluster. You can also specify additional
    metadata to be tracked for a given model build. For example, you can specify
    metadata that links training data to a project through a special file called
    the linking file (lineage.yaml).
The lineage.yaml file describes additional metadata and
      the lineage relationships between the project’s models and training data.
      You can use a single lineage.yaml file for all the models
      within the project.
noteYour lineage file should be present in your project before you create
      a model build. The lineage file is parsed and metadata is attached during
      the model build process.

Create a YAML file in your ML project called
          lineage.yaml. If you have used a template to
          create your project, a lineage.yaml file should
          already exist in your project.
 Insert statements in the file that describe the relationships you
        want to track between a model and the training data. You can include
        additional descriptive metadata through key-value pairs in a
          metadata section. 

YAML 
YAML Structure
Description



Model name
Top-level entry
A ML model name associated with the current project.
                  There can be more than one model per linking file.


hive_table_qualified_names
Second-level entry
This pre-defined key introduces sequence items that list
                  the names of Hive tables used as training data.


Table names
Sequence items
The qualified names of Hive tables used as training data
                  enclosed in double quotation marks. Qualified names are of the
                  format
                      db-name.table-name@cluster-name


metadata
Second-level entry
This pre-defined key introduces additional metadata to be
                  included in the Atlas representation of the relationship
                  between the model and the training data.


key:value
Third-level entries
Key-value pairs that describe information about how this
                  data is used in the model. For example, consider including the
                  query text that is used to extract training data or the name
                  of the training file used.

 The following example linking file shows entries for two models
        in your project: modelName1 and
          modelName2:modelName1:                               # the name of your model
  hive_table_qualified_names:             # this is a predefined key to link to
                                          # training data
    - "db.table1@namespace"               # the qualifiedName of the hive_table
                                          # object representing training data
    - "db.table2@ns"
  metadata:                               # this is a predefined key for 
                                          # additional metadata
    key1: value1                                    
    key2: value2                                    
    query: "select id, name from table"   # suggested use case: query used to
                                          # extract training data
    training_file: "fit.py"               # suggested use case: training file
                                          # used
modelName2:                               # multiple models can be specified in 
                                          # one file
  hive_table_qualified_names:             
    - "db.table2@ns"


