Introduction to RAZ on Azure environmentsCloudera Docs
Introduction to RAZ on Azure environments
Shared Data Experience (SDX) in CDP Public Cloud provides Ranger Authorization Server
        (RAZ) service for fine grained access control and auditing of various services and workloads
        running in Enterprise Data Cloud. To use RAZ server capabilities, you must first enable RAZ
        in an Azure environment in CDP Public Cloud.
CDP Public Cloud defaults to using cloud storage which might be challenging while
            managing data access across teams and individual users. The Ranger Authorization Service
            (RAZ) resolves this challenge by enabling ADLS Gen2 users to use fine-grained access
            policies and audit capabilities available in Apache Ranger similar to those used with
            HDFS files in an on-premises or IaaS deployment.
Prior to the introduction of RAZ, controlling access to ADLS Gen2 could be
            enforced at coarse-grained group level (using IDBroker mappings). This required
            rearchitecting the implementation of important file-centric activities as well as
            admin-level access to both the Azure subscription and CDP account. 
In HDP and CDH deployments, files and directories are protected with a combination of
            HDFS Access Control Lists (ACLs) (in CDH, HDP) and Ranger HDFS policies (in HDP).
            Similarly, in an Azure CDP Public Cloud environment with RAZ for ADLS Gen2 enabled,
            Ranger's rich access control policies can be applied to CDP's access to ADLS Gen2
            containers, directories, and files and can be controlled with admin-level access to CDP
            alone.
importantIt is recommended that you do not setup
            IDBroker mapping for workload users in a RAZ-enabled Azure
            environment.
Supported use cases for RAZ in Azure environments
Many of the use cases that RAZ for Azure enables are cases where access
                control on files or directories is needed. Some examples include:
Per-user home directories.
Data engineering (Spark) efforts that require access to cloud
                        storage objects and directories. 
Data warehouse queries (Hive/Impala) that use external tables. 
Access to Ranger's rich access control policies such as date-based
                        access revocation, user/group/role-based controls, along with corresponding
                        audit.
Tag-based access control using the classification propagation
                        feature that originates from directories.

The core RAZ for Azure for Data Lakes and several Data Hub templates are available
                for production use. The following Data Hub cluster types are supported:
Data Engineering
Data Engineering HA
Data Engineering Spark3
Operational Database with SQL
Specifically, Hive, Spark, HBase, and Oozie are supported.
RAZ is fully integrated with the following CDP data services: 
Cloudera Data Flow (CDF)
Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)
Cloudera Machine Learning (CML)
Cloudera Operational Database (COD)

You can backup and restore the metadata maintained in the Data Lake services of
                RAZ-enabled environments. For more information, see Data Lake Backup and Restore.
importantIntegrations with some components are
                under technical preview or has limited availability. Contact your account team
                before you use RAZ for your production use cases.

Limitations to use RAZ in Azure environments
The following limitations and known issues have been identified and are under
                    development:
Currently, there is no automated way to enable RAZ in an existing CDP
                        environment that does not have RAZ enabled. 
RAZ integration is under technical preview for the following CDP
                            services:
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)
Integration with Data Hub Hue's File Browser

Solr, Kudu, and NiFi are not supported by RAZ.



