Using CDP UI to register RAZ-enabled Azure environmentCloudera Docs
Using CDP UI to register RAZ-enabled Azure environment
Once you’ve met the Azure cloud provider requirements, register your Azure
        environment in CDP.

This assumes that you have already fulfilled the environment prerequisites described
                in Azure requirements.
Required role: EnvironmentCreator


Log in to the CDP web interface.

Navigate to the Management Console > Environments > Register environment page.

On the Register Environment page, provide the following
                    information:


Enter an Environment Name.


Select a provisioning credential.



Click Next.

On the Data Access and Data Lake Scaling page, provide
                    the following information:


Enter a Data Lake Cluster Name.


Make sure to select Runtime 7.2.11 or a higher
                            version from the Data Lake version drop-down
                            menu.


In the Data Access and Audit section, provide
                            your data storage location and managed identities created for minimal
                            setup for cloud storage. 


In the Fine-grained access control on ADLS Gen2
                            section, click on the toggle button to enable Ranger authorization for
                            ADLS Gen2 and select the managed identity created for RAZ.
The following image shows the Fine-grained access control
                                on ADLS Gen2 section where you can enable the Ranger
                            authorization for ADLS and choose an Azure managed identity for Ranger
                                authorizer:





Click Next. 

On the Region, Networking and Security page, provide the
                    following information:


Select the region.


Select an existing resource group. Creating new resource groups is not
                            supported.


Select the network, security groups, and provide an SSH key. If
                            required, add tags.



Click Next. 

On the Storage page, provide your logs storage location
                    and managed identities created for minimal setup for cloud storage. 

Click Register Environment to trigger environment
                    registration.


Parent topic: Registering a RAZ-enabled Azure environment