Creating Ranger RAZ managed identity for RAZ-enabled Azure environmentCloudera Docs
Creating Ranger RAZ managed identity for RAZ-enabled Azure environment
In addition to creating the required managed identities, you should create an
        additional managed identity named Ranger RAZ for RAZ-enabled Azure environment. You can also
        optionally create a custom role that can be used instead of Storage Blob Data
        Owner.

You can create the required managed identities as described in Minimal setup for cloud storage, and then
                create the following managed identity to use RAZ in Azure environment.


Managed identity
Managed identity is used for
Roles to assign to the managed identity



Ranger RAZ
Storage Account


Storage Blob Data Owner or equivalent Creating custom role to use in RAZ-enabled Azure environment

Storage Blob Delegator







Perform the following steps to create the Ranger RAZ managed
                    identity using Azure Portal:


On Azure Portal, navigate to Managed
                            Identities.


Click +New.


Select the Resource group used for CDP. 


Select your environment’s Region.


Specify managed identity Name. For example,
                                Ranger RAZ.


Provide tags if required by your organization.


Click Review + create. 




Perform the following steps to assign the two roles to the Ranger
                        RAZ managed identity on the scope of the storage account created
                    for CDP: 


In your Azure Portal, navigate to the Storage accounts > [***your storage
                                    account***] > Access Control (IAM) page.


Click +Add > Add role assignment.


In the Add role assignment section, choose the
                            following options:


Select Storage Blob Data Owner
                                    as Role. 
Select User assigned managed
                                        identity as Assign access
                                        to.
Select the Ranger RAZ managed
                                    identity that you created earlier.
Click Save.




To assign the Storage Blob Delegator role to
                                Ranger RAZ managed identity, repeat steps a
                            through c.




Parent topic: Prepare to register RAZ-enabled Azure environment