Registering a RAZ-enabled Azure environmentCloudera Docs
Registering a RAZ-enabled Azure environment
You can use the CDP web interface or CDP CLI to register a RAZ-enabled Azure
        environment.
You can enable RAZ on the latest available version of Cloudera Runtime. The minimum
            Cloudera Runtime version supporting RAZ for Azure environments is 7.2.11.
When you register an Azure environment, enable the Fine-grained
                access control on ADLS Gen2 option, and then provide the managed
            identity that you created earlier. 
After you implement RAZ by registering the RAZ-enabled Azure environment, the
            following RAZ authorization steps are completed by the RAZ server automatically:
Coordinates with IDBroker to generate and cache the user delegation
                    token.
Updates the cached user delegation token periodically.
Authorizes the collated information from the RAZ client. When an
                    action is performed on a given cloud storage or path, the RAZ client collates
                    the information and sends it to the RAZ server for further processing.

The RAZ server generates the responses based on the requests. 
The following table lists the request and the response generated by the RAZ
            server for the request:


Request
Response



Allowed
RAZ server responds with a DSAS token. HDFS driver uses this token
                            information to access cloud storage or path. For more information about
                            the request, login to Ranger Admin UI and check the access audit
                            reports.


Denied
RAZ server returns Access denied
                            response.


Not Determined
RAZ server responds with a DSAS token only if the RAZ service is
                            configured to fallback. Otherwise, the RAZ server returns an
                                Access denied response.


Server failed
If RAZ failed to process a request, the RAZ server failed
                                to process the request error appears.


Using CDP UI to register RAZ-enabled Azure environmentOnce you’ve met the Azure cloud provider requirements, register your Azure         environment in CDP.Using CDP CLI to register RAZ-enabled Azure environmentYou can use the CDP CLI to register a RAZ-enabled Azure environment. You must         download and install beta CDP CLI, and then use CDP CLI commands to register a RAZ-enabled         Azure environment.