Generating an API access keyCloudera Docs
Generating an API access key
A CDP user account (a user or a machine user) must have API access credentials to
    access CDP services.

When you use this method to generate an access key and then manually configure the access
        key in the ~/.cdp/credentials, the access credentials are permanent
        until they are removed from the ~/.cdp/credentials file. If you prefer
        that the API access key is shorter-lived, refer to the topic Logging into the CDP CLI/SDK,
        which describes a method of logging into the CLI/SDK through any SAML-compliant identity
        provider.
Required roles: Users who have the IAMUser role can generate an access key
        from their own account page. As a CDP Private Cloud administrator or
          PowerUser, you can generate an access key for a user account that does
        not have the IAMUser role.
To generate an API access key using the CLI, refer to the following commands on the IAM documentation page:
create-user-access-key: for generating access
            key for users
create-machine-user-access-key: for generating
            access key for machine users

To generate an API access key using the Management Console:


Sign in to the CDP console.

Click on your user name in the bottom left corner and then select
            Profile.

On the user profile page that appears, click Generate Access
          Key.

On the Generate Access Key pop-up window, click
            Generate Access Key.
CDP creates the key and displays the information on the screen.

Copy the access key and private key to a text file and send it to the CDP user who
          requires it.
The private key is a very long string of characters. Make sure that you copy the full
          string. You can optionally download the credentials file containing the access key
          information by clicking Download Credentials File.

noteThe CDP console displays the API access key immediately after
            you create it. You must copy or download the access key ID and private key information
            when it is displayed. Do not exit the console without copying the private key. After you
            exit the console, there is no other way to view or copy the private key.


Click Close to exit the access key window.

Once you have generated the access key, you can configure CDP
      CLI, SDK, or other utilities that require it.
Parent topic: CLI client setup