How to trigger HDFS audit files rolloverCloudera Docs
How to trigger HDFS audit files rollover
How to configure when HDFS audit files close for each service.

By default, the Ranger Audit framework closes audit files created in HDFS
                or other cloud storage inline with audit event triggers. In other words, when an
                audit event occurs, Ranger checks the configured rollout time and then closes the
                file if the threshold has reached. Default audit rollout time is 24 hours. If no
                audit event occurs in a 24 hour period,  files remain open beyond the 24 hour
                period. In some environments, audit log analysis that encounter an audit file open
                beyond the current date can cause system exceptions. If you want the files to be
                closed every day, so that the audit log file will have only that day's log and the
                next day’s log will be in the next day's file, you can configure the audit framework
                to close files every day. To do this, you must add several configuration parameters
                to the ranger-<service_name>-audit.xml (safety valve) file for each service,
                using Cloudera Manager.


From Cloudera Manager choose <service_name> > Configuration.

In <service_name> > Configuration > Search, type ranger-<service_name>, then press
                        Return.

In <service_name> Server Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                        Valve) for ranger-<service_name>-audit.xml, do the following
                    steps:


Click + (Add).


In Name, type
                                xasecure.audit.destination.hdfs.file.rollover.enable.periodic.rollover


In Value, type true.

When this is enabled Ranger Audit Framework will spawn a Scheduler
                                thread which monitors the occurrence of closing threshold and closes
                                the file. By default every night the file gets closed.



Click + (Add another).


In Name, type
                            xasecure.audit.destination.hdfs.file.rollover.sec


In Value, type an integer value in seconds.
This is the time in seconds when the file has to be closed. The
                            default value is 86400 sec (1 day) which triggers the file to be closed
                            at midnight and opens a new audit log for the next day. You can override
                            the default value can be overridden by setting this parameter. For
                            example, if you set the value 3600 (1 hr), the file gets closed every
                            hour.


Click + (Add another).


In Name, type
                                xasecure.audit.destination.hdfs.file.rollover.periodic.rollover.check.sec


In Value, type an integer value in seconds.

This is the time frequency of the check to be done whether the
                                threshold time for rollover has occurred. By default the check is
                                done every 60 secs. You can configure this parameter to delay the
                                check time.




Figure 1. Example: Hive service configured to trigger rollover
                                            of hdfs audit files







Click Save Changes (CTRL+S).



Repeat steps 1-3 for each service.

Restart the service.


Parent topic: Managing Auditing with Ranger