Downloading summary status for Cloudera Data EngineeringCloudera Docs
Downloading summary status for Cloudera Data Engineering
This section describes how to download a summary status of a Cloudera Data
        Engineering (CDE) Service in Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) using CDE UI.

To get a current snapshot of the current CDE infrastructure status (cloud resources,
                Kubernetes pod statuses, pod events and service metadata). This summary status, in
                the form of a ZIP file, is downloaded to your computer. This is available on both
                AWS and Azure environments.


Required Role: DEAdmin
After granting or revoking the role on the environment, run the
                    Sync Users to FreeIPA environment action.


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the Data
                        Engineering tile. The CDE Home page
                    displays.

Click Administration in the left navigation menu and
                    locate the service in the Services column, and click
                        Service Details on the environment for which you want
                    to download a summary status.

In the selected CDE service, click  to see a drop down menu, and select
                        Download Diagnostics.






It takes you to the Diagnostics tab of the Service
                    details. Click the Download Summary Status button.






Summary Status gets downloaded on your local machine in a Zip file.


When you extract the Summary Status ZIP file that you downloaded from CDE UI, you can
                see the directories that contain files in JSON format. 
Below is an example of format of the Zip file for Summary Status: 
note In the extracted Summary Status file, cluster.json refers
                to the CDE service and ‘instances’ refer to CDE virtual clusters. 
cde-service-diagnostics-{clusterID}-{timestamp}/
  cluster.json            # output from cluster describe
  cluster-events.json     # output from get cluster events
  cloud-diagnostics.json  # cloud resource status (RDS, EFS, EKS, LB, ...)
  instances/
    {id}.json             # output from instance id describe
    {id}-events.json      # output from get instance id events
  kubernetes/             # kubernetes resource status for all relevant objects and namespaces
    nodes.json
    {namespace}/
      namespace.json
      pods.json
      events.json
      deployments.json
      replicasets.json
      services.json
      daemonsets.json
    {namespace}/
      namespace.json
      pods.json
      events.json
      deployments.json
      replicasets.json
      services.json
      daemonsets.json
    ...



Parent topic: Cloudera Data Engineering diagnostic bundles and summary status