Hardware and storageCloudera Docs
Hardware and storage
The "Hardware and storage" options allow you to customize the cloud provider specific
  cluster hardware and storage options.
The Hardware and Storage options can be selected for each host group. To edit this
   section for a specific host group, click on the . When done editing, click on the  to save the changes. Repeat for these steps for all host groups that
   you would like to edit. 
The following hardware and storage settings are available:


Parameter
Description



Cloudera Manager Server
You must select one node for Cloudera Manager Server by clicking the  button. The “Instance Count” for
       that host group must be set to “1”. If you are using one of the default cluster templates, this is
       set by default.


Instance Type
Select an instance type. For information about instance types on AWS
                refer to Amazon EC2 Instance Types in AWS documentation.



Instance Count
Enter the number of instances of a given type. Default is 1.


Storage Type
Select the volume type. The options vary by instance type and
                include: (1) Ephemeral (2) Magnetic (3) General Purpose SSD, (4) Throughput
                Optimized HDD. For more information about these options refer to Amazon EC2 Instance Store in AWS
                documentation.
noteStopping
                and restarting Data Hub clusters using ephemeral storage is not supported.
              


Encryption 
Under Encryption Key, you can select an existing encryption key. For more
       information, refer to EBS Encryption on AWS. 


Attached Volumes Per Instance
Enter the number of volumes attached per instance. Default is 1.


Volume Size
Enter the size in GB for each volume. Default is 100.


Root Volume Size
This option allows you to increase or decrease the root volume
                size. Default is 100 GB. This option is useful if your custom image requires more
                space than the default 100 GB. If you use a custom Data Hub template specifying a
                root volume size smaller than 100GB, you may encounter an error.




Parent topic: Advanced cluster options