Disabling Kerberos authentication for HBase clientsCloudera Docs
Disabling Kerberos authentication for HBase clients
Client applications that run on legacy products and do not have Kerberos enabled,
        fail to connect to COD instances that have Kerberos enabled. You can disable Kerberos
        authentication in your COD instances so that HBase or Phoenix clients can connect
        seamlessly.

You can also disable the Kerberos authentication using COD CLI while creating an
                operational database.
You can use the --disable-kerberos option while running the
                    create-database command to disable the Kerberos
                authentication.
cdp opdb create-database --environment-name
ENVIRONMENT_NAME --database-name
DATABASE_NAME
--disable-kerberos
For
                example,cdp opdb create-database --environment-name cdp_7215 --database-name cod1 --disable-kerberos

importantCloudera recommends that you do not
                    disable Kerberos authentication. You might want to disable it for testing
                    purposes until the legacy applications are restructured to use Kerberos
                    authentication. When you disable Kerberos authentication, COD becomes vulnerable
                    to malicious clients.



In Cloudera Manager, go to the HBase service.

In the Configuration tab, set
                        hbase.security.authentication=simple under HBase
                    Secure Authentication and hbase.thrift.security.qop=none
                    under HBase Thrift Authentication.

Figure 1. HBase security authentication


Figure 2. HBase thrift authentication




In the Ranger web UI, add the phoenix user. This resolves the impersonation
                    issue.


On the Data lake page, select the Ranger service.


On the Ranger Service Manager web UI, find and select the HBase policy
                            for your COD instance.

Figure 3. Ranger service manager





Click on the edit button in the Action column to
                            edit the all - table, column-family, column
                            policy.

Figure 4. Ranger service manager policy





In the Ranger service manager edit policy page, add the phoenix user
                            and save the modified policy.

Figure 5. Add phoenix user






Kerberos authentication is disabled in your COD instance and
            legacy HBase or Phoenix clients without having Kerberos enabled, can connect to your COD
            instance.

Related informationCOD CLI command reference GitHub repositoryCDP CLI BETA command reference GitHub repositoryParent topic: HBase authentication