OverviewCloudera Docs
Overview
 Get familiar with Streams Replication Manager and its components.
Streams Replication Manager (SRM) is an enterprise-grade replication solution that
      enables fault tolerant, scalable and robust cross-cluster Kafka topic replication. SRM
      provides the ability to dynamically change configurations and keeps the topic properties in
      sync across clusters at high performance. SRM also delivers custom extensions that facilitate
      installation, management and monitoring making SRM a complete replication solution that is
      built for mission critical workloads. Streams Replication Manager consists of two main
      components. The Stream Replication Engine and the Stream Replication Management Services.
Figure 1. Streams Replication Manager
        Overview

Stream Replication Engine

The Stream Replication Engine is a next generation multi-cluster and cross-datacenter
            replication engine for Kafka clusters. 

Stream Replication Management Services

Stream Replication Management Services are services powered by open source Cloudera
            extensions which utilize the capabilities of the Stream Replication Engine. These
            services provide:

Easy installation
Lifecycle management
Management and monitoring of replication flows across clusters



The Stream Replication Management Services includes the following custom extensions:

Cloudera SRM Driver

The Cloudera SRM Driver is a small wrapper around the Stream Replication
            Engine that adds the extensions provided by Cloudera. It provides the ability to spin up
            SRM clusters and has a metrics reporter. The command line tool associated with the
            Cloudera SRM Driver is called srm-driver.

Cloudera SRM Client

The Cloudera SRM Client provides users with command line tools that enable replication
            management for topics and consumer groups. The command line tool associated with the
            Cloudera SRM Client is called srm-control.

Cloudera SRM Service

The Cloudera SRM Service consists of a REST API and a Kafka Streams
            application to aggregate and expose cluster, topic and consumer group metrics. The
            command line tool associated with the Cloudera SRM Service is called
              srm-service.



