Multi-row transactions for querying Kudu tablesCloudera Docs
Multi-row transactions for querying Kudu tables
When you use Impala to query Kudu tables, you can insert multiple rows into a Kudu
    table in a single transaction. This broader transactional support between Kudu and Impala is
    available to you at a query level and at a session level.
Using multi-row transaction capability
To enable this multi-row transaction capability, you must create a mapping between the
        Impala and Kudu tables if you want to use Impala to query Kudu tables. Kudu provides the
        Impala query to map to an existing Kudu table in the web UI. See the links provided under
        Related Information for mapping information.
Using this multi-row transaction capability, you will benefit from having broader
        transactional support in Kudu and Impala. You can control this multi-row transaction feature
        by using the following query option. You may set this option at per-query or per-session
        level.

set ENABLE_KUDU_TRANSACTION=true

The following example shows how to insert three rows into a table in a single
        transaction.
Example:

Create table
          kudu-test-tbl-1.create table kudu-test-tbl-1 (a int primary key, b string) partition by hash(a) partitions 8 stored as kudu;
Enable the multi-row transaction feature at the query
          level.set ENABLE_KUDU_TRANSACTION=true;
Insert three rows into the newly created table in a single
          transaction.insert into {0} values (0, 'a'), (1, 'b'), (2, 'c');
Verify the number of rows of this
            table.select count(*) from kudu-test-tbl-1;


noteIf you insert multiple rows with duplicate keys into a table the transaction is
          aborted.

When you enable this option, each impala statement is executed as part of a new
        transaction. If the statement is executed successfully then the Impala Coordinator commits
        the transaction. If there is an error returned by Kudu then Impala aborts the
        transaction.
This applies to the following statements:

INSERT
CREATE TABLE AS SELECT


Advantages of using this capability
You can now easily build and manage Kudu applications, especially when Impala is used to
        interact with the data in the Kudu table. This capability provides the ability to:

Atomically do a bulk ingest.
Automatically insert rows into multiple tables.



Related informationUsing Impala to query Kudu tablesUnderstanding Impala integration with Kudu