Associating a Python virtual environment with a Cloudera Data Engineering jobCloudera Docs
Associating a Python virtual environment with a Cloudera Data
    Engineering job
You can associate the Python virtual environment with a CDE job at
    the time of creation, or you can update an existing job.
CDE CLIWeb UI
Before you begin

Download and configure the CDE CLI.
Create a Python virtual environment CDE resource.
Create a CDE job.

Steps

Using the CDE CLI, run the cde job update command
            to associate a Python virtual environment with the job.
              cde job update --name pyspark-example --python-env-resource-name cde-python-env-resource
noteYou can specify a Python virtual environment resource at job
                creation time as well, using the flag
                  --python-env-resource-name. For
                example:cde job create --type spark --application-file pyspark-example.py --python-env-resource-name cde-python-env-resource --name pyspark-example



Before you beginimportantThe user interface for CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The
            left-hand menu was updated to provide easy access to commonly used pages. The steps
            below will vary slightly, for example, the Overview page has been
            replaced with the Home page. You can also manage a job by
            clicking Jobs on the left-hand menu, then selecting your desired
            Virtual Cluster from a drop-down at the top of the Jobs page. The
            new home page still displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links
            located at the top for the following categories: Jobs,
              Resources, and Download &
            Docs.

Create a Python virtual environment CDE resource.
Create a CDE job.

Steps

In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) management console, click the Data
              Engineering tile and click Overview.
 In the CDE Services column, select the
            service containing the virtual cluster and job you want to
            configure.
In the Virtual Clusters column on the
            right, click the View Jobs icon for the
            virtual cluster containing the job you want to configure.
Click Jobs in the left menu.
Click the job you want to modify.
Go to the Configuration tab.
Click Edit.
In the Python Environment section, click
              Select Python Environment.
Select the Python virtual environment resource you want to use,
            and then click Select Resource.
At the bottom of the page, click Update and
              Run to run the job immediately, or click the drop-down
            arrow on the button and select Update to
            update the job without running it.



Parent topic: Using Python virtual environments with Cloudera Data Engineering