Creating a Python virtual environment resourceCloudera Docs
Creating a Python virtual environment resource
After you have created the requirements.txt file,
    you can create the Python virtual environment resource.
noteFor python-env resources, you can only upload a
        requirements.txt file. Python environment resources do
      not support arbitrary file upload. If the local file is named something
      other than requirements.txt, you must add the flag
        --resource-path requirements.txt to the command, which
      renames the file to requirements.txt in the
        resource.You can also specify a PyPi mirror for a Python virtual
        environment resource using the --pypi-mirror flag. This
        requires network access to the mirror from the CDP
      environment.
CDE CLIWeb UI
Before you begin

Download and configure the CDE CLI.
Create a requirements.txt file specifying the
            Python package and version dependencies required by your CDE
            job.

Steps


Run the cde resource create command as follows
              to create a Python virtual environment resource.
noteYou can also specify a PyPi mirror for a Python virtual
              environment resource using the --pypi-mirror
              flag. This requires network access to the mirror from the CDP
              environment.cde resource create --name cde-python-env-resource --type python-env --python-version python3

Upload the requirements.txt file to the
              resource.
noteFor python-env resources, you can only
                upload a requirements.txt file. Python
                environment resources do not support arbitrary file upload. If
                the local file is named something other than
                  requirements.txt, you must add the flag
                  --resource-path requirements.txt to the
                command, which renames the file to
                  requirements.txt in the resource.
cde resource upload --name cde-python-env-resource --local-path ${HOME}/requirements.txt


Result
When you first create a Python virtual environment resource, CDE
          builds the environment according to the
            requirements.txt file. During this build time, you
          cannot run a job associated with the virtual environment. You can
          check the status of the environment by running cde resource
            list-events --name <resource_name>.
          For example:
cde resource list-events --name cde-python-env-resource
The environment is ready when you see a message similar to the
          following:
  {
    "id": 4,
    "message": "Job pp-84kgdgf6-resource-builder-cde-python-env-resource-1634911572 succeeded, marking resource with ready status",
    "created": "2021-10-22T14:09:13Z"
  }

Before you begin
importantThe user interface
            for CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy
            access to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example, the
              Overview page has been replaced with the
              Home page. The new home page still displays Virtual Clusters,
            but now includes quick-access links located at the top for the following categories:
              Jobs, Resources, and Download
              & Docs.

Create a requirements.txt file specifying the
            Python package and version dependencies required by your CDE
            job.

Steps

In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) management console, click the Data
              Engineering tile and click Overview.
 In the CDE Services column, select the
            service containing the virtual cluster where you want to create the
            Python virtual environment.
In the Virtual Clusters column on the
            right, click the View Jobs icon for the
            virtual cluster where you want to create the Python virtual
            environment.
Click Resources in the left menu.
Click Create Resource at the top
            right.
Specify a resource name, and then select Python
              Environment from the Type
            drop-down menu.
Choose the Python version for the environment and optionally
            specify the PyPi Mirror URL. The PyPi mirror
            must be accessible from the CDP environment.
Click Create.
Click Upload File and select the
              requirements.txt file from your local machine.
            You can also drag-and-drop the file to the outlined area on the
            page.

Result
The UI displays Building the resource... while
          the Python virtual environment is building. After the environment is
          built, the page displays the Python packages and versions included in
          the environment.


Parent topic: Using Python virtual environments with Cloudera Data Engineering