CDP Upgrade and Migrations PathsCloudera Docs
CDP Upgrade and Migrations Paths

Take a look at the overview, features, and advantages of CDP and know the upgrade and
            migration paths from CDH or HDP platform to CDP. 
Introduction to CDP
The merger of Cloudera and Hortonworks led to the new Cloudera Data
        Platform or CDP, which is the combined best of breed Big Data components
        from both Cloudera and Hortonworks.
Review the following information before you upgrade or migrate to
        Cloudera Data Platform (CDP):
CDP Overview
CDP Private Cloud Base new features


Troubleshooting
A selection of Cloudera Knowledge Base articles are available that
        describe common issues encountered by Cloudera customers during upgrades
        and migrations.  See CDP Upgrade/Migrate Troubleshooting
          Articles. (Cloudera login required.) 

CDP upgrade and migration paths are: 

CDP Upgrade and Migration paths for Data-at-Rest
CDP Upgrade and Migration paths to CDP for CDF
                        components
CDP Upgrade and Migration paths for CDSW (Machine
                        Learning)


noteIf you are upgrading to Cloudera Manager 7.5.1 or higher in order to install CDP Private
        Cloud Experiences version 1.3.1, you must use Cloudera Runtime version 7.1.6 or 7.1.7. For
        more information, see CDP Private Cloud Experiences.


CDP Upgrade and Migration Paths for Data-at-Rest
If you are an HDP or a CDH user, you can follow one of the several upgrade or
                migration paths to CDP.





Migration and Upgrade Paths
Description

In-place upgrade
Recommended for large clusters. Other paths are not viable.
                            Involves downtime. See the following to know more about the In-place
                            upgrade paths:
In-place upgrade from CDH to
                                        CDP Private Cloud Base
In-place upgrade from HDP to
                                        CDP Private Cloud Base


Migrate to new cluster
Recommended if you are ready for a hardware refresh or have small
                            clusters. You can fall back to your original cluster in the event of
                            upgrade issues. Requires additional hardware.

Direct to cloud migration 
Recommended if you can tolerate some cluster
              downtime or have bursty workloads. See the following to know more
              about the direct to cloud migration paths:
Nifi workloadsIf you are running NiFi workloads
                    without Hive, Impala, HBase, or Kafka: Migrate to CDP Data
                    Hub and use the Flow Management cluster template. 
Kafka workloadsIf you are running Kafka
                    workloads without Hive, Impala, HBase, or NiFi: Migrate to
                    CDP Data Hub and use the Streams Messaging cluster template.
                  
HBase workloadsIf you are running HBase
                    workloads without Hive or Impala: Migrate to CDP Data Hub
                    and use the Operational Database cluster template. 
Hive or Impala workloadsIf you are running Hive
                    or Impala workloads without HBase: Migrate to Cloudera Data
                    Warehouse.
Other workloads Migrate to CDP Data Hub and use
                    the custom cluster template.




CDP Upgrade and Migration Paths to CDP for CDF components
You can upgrade or migrate CDF components to CDP in the following ways: 
What do you want to migrate?
Do you want to migrate or upgrade? 

Streaming workloads


In-place upgrade from
                                        CDH
In-place upgrade from
                                        HDP
Migrating Streaming workloads
                                        from HDF to CDP



Flow Management workloads



Follow the applicable upgrade or migration path in Upgrade and migration
                                            paths.




Workloads for deprecated components



Migrate Flume workloads to NiFi for CDP. This
                                        workflow is in development.

Migrate Storm workloads to Flink for CDP. This content is in
                                    development.




CDP Migration and Upgrade Paths for CDSW (Machine Learning)
You can upgrade or migrate CDSW to CDP Machine Learning in the following ways:
                    
What do you want to migrate?
Do you want to migrate or upgrade?

CDSW with CDH/HDP to CDSW with CDP Private Base
For in-place upgrade follow the upgrade documentation. For migration
                            follow the documented migration
                            steps.

CDSW to CML-Public Cloud
The workflow and tools to migrate from CDSW to CML in CDP Public
                            Cloud are in development. To perform this migration now, contact your
                            Cloud account or professional services representative.

CDSW to CML-Private Cloud
The workflow and tools to migrate from CDSW to CML in CDP Private
                            Cloud is available as technical preview. For more information, see the
                                migration
                            documentation.



