Adding multiple namenodes using the HDFS serviceCloudera Docs
Adding multiple namenodes using the HDFS service
You must ensure that Cloudera Manager is in a clean state without any health issues
        and no stale configurations on the cluster. If there are any health issues or stale
        configurations, then you must restart the cluster separately from the command and not within
        the command. For this, you must clear the Rolling Restart HDFS and all dependent
            services to activate the changes option in step 10b. Also, if there are any
        health issues or stale configurations that cannot be cleared from the cluster, you must
        restart the cluster separately.You can add multiple namenodes using the HDFS service in Cloudera
        Manager.

Log in to Cloudera Manager UI

Navigate to Clusters

Select the HDFS service

Go to Instances

Click Federation and High Availability

Click Actions

Click Add Additional NameNode(s). Add
                        Additional NameNode wizard opens.

In the Assign Roles page, select a host which is not
                    assigned to any namenode.

Click Continue.

In the Review Changes page, you can specify the namenode
                    data directory. 


If you want to delete the data present in the namenode data directory
                            you have provided, then you must select the Clear any
                                existing data present in name directories of Standby
                                NameNode option. Remember to take a backup of the
                            namenode data directory.


If you want to restart HDFS service and its dependencies, then you must
                            select the Rolling Restart HDFS and all dependent services to
                                activate the changes option. Remember that if you have
                            not enabled High Availability feature, the rolling restart may cause a
                            cluster downtime. Note: If you do not select the Rolling Restart option,
                            then you can click Continue and restart the cluster later.



Click Continue. This runs the required commands and adds
                    the additional namenodes.

Click Finish.


Parent topic: Multiple NameNodes overview