Microsoft Azure prerequisites for Cloudera Data EngineeringCloudera Docs
Microsoft Azure prerequisites for Cloudera Data Engineering
 Microsoft Azure prerequisites for Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE).
Review Azure account prerequisites for CDP
Refer to the Azure subscription requirements,
        and make sure that the Azure account you are using for CDP has the
        required resources, and that you have the permissions required to manage
        these resources.

Review CDE-specific Azure resource requirements
The following Azure services are required to provision a CDE Service
        and virtual clusters: 
Azure Services used by Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)

Network – VNet and Subnets(see below for requirements)
Database – Azure Database for MySQL server
Compute – Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
Load Balancing - Azure Load Balancer
Virtual machine scale set
Storage account - CDE stores workload data and logs in Azure Data Lake Store Gen 2 (ADLS
          Gen2) environment storage account. The AKS service also generates a separate storage
          account for use with Azure Files.
Azure Files - Contain job resources, application code, Apache Airflow DAG files and any
          other uploaded files. The AKS service generates an ADLS Gen2 storage account for these
          files.
Log Analytics workspace

Refer to the Azure resources used by CDP to check the Azure
        resources used by CDP.
Vnet and Subnet Requirements
When registering an Azure environment in CDP, you will be asked to select a VNet
        and one or more subnets. Cloudera Data Engineering runs in the VNet registered in CDP as
        part of your Azure environment.
You have two options:

Use your existing VNet and subnets for provisioning CDP resources
Have CDP create a new VNet and subnets

New VNet and subnets
If you would like CDP to create a new VNet, you will need to specify a valid CIDR
        in IPv4 range that will be used to define the range of private IPs for VM instances
        provisioned into these subnets. This must be a /16 CIDR, but you can customize the IP Range.
        The default is 10.10.0.0/16.
CDP will divide this address range as follows:


32 x /24 private subnet for ML and CDE
3 x /19 private subnet for DW
3 x /19 private subnet for Data Lake and Data Hub
3 x /24 public subnet


Existing VNet and subnets
VNet Requirements
If you would like to use your own VNet, it needs to fulfill the following requirements:

The VNet has at least one subnet
VNet should be able to make an outbound connection with the internet or set of CIDRs and
          ports provided by Cloudera

Subnet Requirements
Each CDE service requires its own subnet, and must not share subnets or
        routing tables with any other CDP service or AKS cluster. CDE on AKS
        uses the Kubenet CNI plugin provided by Azure. In order to use Kubenet
        CNI, you must create multiple smaller subnets when creating an Azure
        environment. Cloudera recommends partitioning the VNet with subnets that
        accommodate the maximum number of expected cluster nodes.
If you are not sure what size of subnet to use, Cloudera recommends a
        24-bit subnet mask (/24 CIDR prefix), which can accommodate 254 usable
        IP addresses per subnet. If you want to use a different subnet size, you
        can calculate the number of IP addresses required per CDE service as
        follows:

Each CDE service can scale up to 100 compute nodes; each node
          consumes one IP address. 
Each CDE service requires 3 IP addresses for the infrastructure
          nodes
Each virtual cluster within a CDE service requires 2 IP
          addresses

For more information, see  VNet and subnets, VNet and subnet planning
Firewall requirements
HTTPS access to CDE endpoints is available over port 443 for the
        following cases:

Internal only – Should be accessible from your organization's
          network, but not the public internet.
Internet facing (public endpoint) – Should be accessible from the
          public internet as well as your organization's internal network.

If you are using a firewall or a security group setting to prevent
        egress traffic from the service, make sure that the
          container.repository.cloudera.com and
          docker.repository.cloudera.com URLs on port 443 are
        allowed at all times.
If egress traffic is blocked to these URLs, then autoscaling cannot
        pull images, which can result in broken pods. For more information on
        required outbound access, see Outbound network access destinations
          for Azure and Default security group settings on
          Azure.
Do not remove firewall rules added during provisioning. The rules are
        also required for regular operation. You must also maintain the minimum
        firewall requirements set by the cloud provider. For more information,
        see Use Azure Firewall to protect Azure
          Kubernetes Service (AKS) Deployments in the Microsoft Azure
        documentation.

Review the default Azure service limits and your current Azure
        account limits
Azure portal imposes default limits to the resources available to each user subscription,
        which may vary for different regions. Make sure you review your Azure subscription’s current
        usage status and resource limits before you start provisioning additional resources for CDP
        and CDE.
If you require more resources than the limit set by Azure, you can create a support request
        on your Azure Portal. 
For example, To register an Azure environment in CDP, you may need to increase some of
        these limits for the region(s) that you are planning to use.CDP creates resources such as
        VMs in your Azure subscription. Depending on the number of clusters that CDP creates in your
        Azure subscription, you might need to raise the limits for certain resources such as VMs and
        vCPUs in your Azure subscription.
Related Azure quotas documentation: Azure subscription and service limits, quotas, and
          constraints.

Supported Azure regions
CDP supports the following Azure regions: Supported Azure regions.

A single Azure environment registered in CDP corresponds to a single VNet located in a
          specific region, and all the resources deployed by CDP on Azure are deployed into that
          VNet.
Deploying clusters into the region containing the ADLS Gen2 containers that you want to
          access for input and output data, speeds up the data access.Therefore, when selecting the
          region to use, you should consider where your data is located.
CDP requires that the ADLS Gen2 storage location provided during environment
          registration is in the same region as the region selected for the environment.

If you need to use multiple regions, you need to register multiple environments, one per
        region.
Related Azure documentation: Azure geographies.

Set up an Azure Cloud Credential
You must create the Azure provisioning credential for CDP prior to registering an
        environment. The credential allows CDP to access and provision a set of resources in your
        Azure account.
When working with an Azure environment, you can use the app-based credential to
        authenticate your Azure account and obtain authorization to create resources on your behalf.
        The app-based credential allows you to manually configure the service principal created
        within the Azure Active Directory.
Instructions: Azure Credentials

Register an Azure Environment in CDP
Once you have met cloud provider requirements and have created the Azure provisioning
        credential for CDP, you may proceed to register an Azure Environment.
important
If you intend to use the Enable Private Network  - create CDE with
          fully private Azure services (AKS, MySQL, etc.) option during environment creation,
          Cloudera recommends using one resource group per environment. You can accomplish this by
          selecting a pre-created resource group during CDP environment creation. This causes all
          CDP resources to be provisioned into the same resource group, allowing you to create
          multiple CDE services with private network enabled.
If you select creating new resource groups together with the environment, several
          separate resource groups are created. Since Azure restricts creating private link
          connections from private DNS zones in different resource groups to the same vnet, in this
          scenario you can only have a single active private CDE service for a given vnet.
As of CDE 1.16, private storage accounts are supported.

Instructions: Register an Azure environment

CDE Role Requirements
There are two CDP user roles associated with the CDE service: DEAdmin and DEUser. Any CDP
        user with the EnvironmentAdmin (or higher) access level must assign these roles to users who
        require access to the Cloudera Data Engineering console within their environment.
Furthermore, if you want to allow users to log in to provisioned workspaces and run
        workloads on them, this will need to be configured separately.

Set up to run kubectl


Go to the three dots on top right side of the CDE UI to see a dropdown menu.
Click on Download the Kube Config option and save it (For example, 
              ~/.kube/cde-env1-kube-config).




Run the following shell command. 
$ export KUBECONFIG=~/.kube/cde-env1-kube-config

You should now be able to run Kubectl Commands



Browser Requirements
Supported browsers: 

Chrome
Safari



