Transitioning Navigator content to AtlasCloudera Docs
Transitioning Navigator content to Atlas
During the transition from CDH to , you can transition the metadata from Navigator to Apache Atlas, for a scalable and robust infrastructure that supports enhanced metadata searchability by collecting of metadata directly from your cluster. 


Cloudera Runtime 7 includes Apache Atlas to collect technical metadata
      from cluster services. Atlas replaces Cloudera Navigator Data Management
      for these clusters. Cloudera has incorporated many features from Navigator
      into Apache Atlas to make sure that the rich metadata collected in
      Navigator can be represented in Atlas. Atlas provides scalable and robust
      infrastructure that supports metadata searches and lineage across
      enterprise production clusters.noteGovernance through Apache Atlas is
        just one element of a secure production cluster: Cloudera supports Atlas
        when it runs on a cluster where Kerberos is enabled to authenticate
        users. When upgrading from to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1 and running Apache
        Atlas, the new cluster must have Kerberos enabled.
You may choose not to transition Navigator content to Atlas at all: this document describes
      how to think about archiving your Navigator audits and metadata.
Whether you choose to transition Navigator contents to Atlas or not, this document describes
      how to use Atlas to accomplish the tasks you are accustomed to performing in Navigator.
What's transitioned?
Business metadata is transitioned into Atlas, including:
Tags
Custom properties (definitions and entity assignments)
Managed metadata properties (definitions and entity assignments)
Original and updated entity names and descriptions

Technical metadata from the following sources are transitioned into Atlas:
Hive
Impala
Spark
Referenced HDFS / S3

What's NOT transitioned?
Audits. In CDP, Ranger collects audit information for successful and failed access to
          objects under its control. This audit system is focused and powerful, but it's enough
          different from how Navigator collected audits that transition isn't appropriate. This
          document includes information on how to transition your auditing to Ranger and how to
          archive your existing Navigator audit information.
Entity Metadata. The following metadata entities in Navigator are not transitioned
          to Atlas:
Unreferenced S3 and HDFS entities. Files in HDFS and S3 that are not included
              in lineage from Hive, Spark, or Impala entities are not transitioned.
Metadata for Sqoop, Pig, Map-Reduce v1 and v2, Oozie, and YARN.

Policies. Navigator policies are not transitioned to Atlas. 
Configuration settings. Configuration properties you've set in Cloudera Manager that
          determine Navigator behavior are not transitioned to the new environment. If you have
          properties that may apply in Atlas, such as authentication credentials, you'll need to
          reset them in the new environment.


Will Navigator still run in Cloudera Manager?
After upgrading Cloudera Manager to CDP, Navigator continues to collect
        metadata and audit information from CDH cluster services. There are no
        changes to Navigator functionality; all Navigator data is retained in
        the Cloudera Manager upgrade. 
After upgrading a CDH cluster, services that previously sent metadata
        and audit information to Navigator, such as Hive, Impala, Spark, and
        HBase, are configured to pass metadata to Atlas. Navigator audit
        collection for those services is disabled. You can still access audits
        and metadata through Navigator; however, Navigator will not collect new
        information from cluster services. When you decide you have exhausted
        the value of the Navigator audits and after you've converted Navigator
        metadata to Atlas content, you can disable Navigator servers.


Related informationHigh-level migration processAssumptions and prerequisitesInstalling Atlas in the Cloudera Manager upgrade wizardTransitioning Navigator data using customized scriptsMapping Navigator metadata to AtlasTransitioning Navigator auditsWhat's new in Atlas for Navigator Users?Atlas technical metadata migration reference