Initializing Navigator Key HSMCloudera Docs
Initializing Navigator Key HSM
Key HSM is initialized using a series of CLI commands and prompts. The setup
    information you enter is dependent on which type of  HSM you are using with Navigator Key HSM. 

Before initializing Navigator Key HSM, verify that the HSM is properly configured and
        accessible from the Key HSM host, and that the HSM client libraries are installed on the Key
        HSM host:
SafeNet LunaInstall the SafeNet Luna client. No additional configuration is
              needed.
SafeNet KeySecureExtract the KeySecure client tarball in the Key HSM library
              directory (/usr/share/keytrustee-server-keyhsm/).
ThalesInstall the Thales client service. Copy
              nCipherKM.jar, jcetools.jar, and
                rsaprivenc.jar from the installation media (usually located in
                opt/nfast/java/classes relative to the installation media mount
              point) to the Key HSM library directory
                (/usr/share/keytrustee-server-keyhsm/).
AWS CloudHSMInstall the AWS CloudHSM client. No additional configuration is
              needed.
See your HSM product documentation for more information on installing and configuring
        your HSM and client libraries.

noteWhen using an HSM with Key Trustee Server and Navigator Encrypt, encrypting many block
          devices may exceed the capacity of the HSM. A key is created in the HSM for each encrypted
          block device, so be sure that your HSM can support your encryption requirements.

For Luna v7, the keyhsm user must be added to the
          hsmusers group with the following
        command:sudo usermod -a -G hsmusers keyhsm


To initialize Key HSM, use the service keyhsm setup command in
          conjunction with the name of the target HSM distribution:

sudo service keyhsm setup [keysecure|thales|luna|cloudhsm]
For all HSM distributions, you are prompted for the IP address and port number that Key
            HSM listens on.
importantIf you have implemented Key Trustee Server high availability,
            initialize Key HSM on each Key Trustee Server.
Cloudera recommends using the loopback address (127.0.0.1) for the
            listener IP address and 9090 as the port
            number:-- Configuring keyHsm General Setup --
Cloudera Recommends to use 127.0.0.1 as the listener port for Key HSM
Please enter Key HSM SSL listener IP address: [127.0.0.1]127.0.0.1
Will attempt to setup listener on 127.0.0.1
Please enter Key HSM SSL listener PORT number: 9090

validate Port:                                    :[ Successful ]


If the setup utility successfully validates the listener IP address and port, you are
          prompted for additional information specific to your HSM. For HSM-specific instructions,
          continue to the HSM-Specific Setup for Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
          section for your HSM.

The Key HSM keystore defaults to a strong, randomly-generated password. However, you
          can change the keystore password in the application.properties
          file:

keyhsm.keystore.password.set=yesNext, run the service
              keyhsm setup command with the name of the HSM to which the keystore password
            applies. You will be prompted to enter the new keystore password, which must be a
            minimum of six characters in length:

sudo service keyhsm setup [keysecure|thales|luna|cloudhsm]



After initial setup, the configuration is stored in the
            /usr/share/keytrustee-server-keyhsm/application.properties file, which
          contains human-readable configuration information for the Navigator Key HSM server.

importantThe truststore file created during Key HSM initialization must be
            stored at /usr/share/keytrustee-server-keyhsm/. There is no way to
            change the default location. 
For additional details about keystores and truststores, see Understanding Keystores and Trustores.



