Row-level filtering in Impala with Ranger policiesCloudera Docs
Row-level filtering in Impala with Ranger policies
Row-level filtering policies are similar to other Ranger access policies. Apache Ranger
  row-level filtering policy allows to set access policies for rows when reading from a
  table.
You can use Apache Ranger row-level filtering policies to set access policies for rows when
   reading from a table. You can set filters for specific users, groups, and conditions. This
   release adds a new feature flag enable_row_filtering which is set to be true by
   default. To enable row-filtering feature you must have set the column masking flag
    enable_column_masking to true since the row-level filtering depends on the
   column masking implementation. You can use this flag enable_row_filtering to
   disable this experimental feature as required.
noteNote that row filtering policies apply prior to any column masking policies, because column
   masking policies apply only on result data of the target table/view.
The following limitations apply when using row-level filters:


Row filtering policies on nested tables can't be applied when nested collection columns(e.g.
    array, map columns) are used directly in the FROM clause. Such queries are currently
    forbidden.
This is an example of the currently supported version of a query on the table my_tbl (id int,
     int_array array<int>) that has a row filter "id = 0".
select a.item from my_tbl t, t.int_array a
However an equivalent query below is not currently supported since it uses the int_array column non-relatively.
select item from my_tbl.int_array
Such queries are forbidden and you must rewrite them to the supported format until further notice.

For information on the steps to set the row-level filtering using Apache Ranger, see the link
    provided under Related Information.

noteHive features that are not supported by Impala should not be used in the filter since
      Impala can't evaluate them.



Related informationRow-level filtering in Hive with Ranger policies