Monitor your Cluster from the SMM UICloudera Docs
Monitor your Cluster from the SMM UI
Use the SMM UI to monitor your cluster. You can quickly check the number of
        producers, brokers, topics, and consumer groups on the Overview tab. From the Topics tab,
        you can view topic details such as the producers and consumers that are connected to the
        topic or the number of events that are written into the topic in a certain time
        frame.


You have a topic with events in it.



Go to the Cloudera Manager UI, click the Streams
                        Messaging Manager service, and select the Streams
                        Messaging Manager Web UI. 

Review the information about your Kafka cluster on the
                        Overview icon. 

The Overview shows the total number of producers,
                        brokers, topics, and consumer groups. It also provides more detailed metrics
                        about producers and consumers.
Click the drop-down arrow in any of the boxes to view a list of Kafka
                        resource. Select one or more Kafka resource to filter your view to just that
                        resource. You can also search for a specific resource. You can click clear
                        at any time to return to the unfiltered view.


From the left navigation pane, click the Topics
                    icon.
The Topic page contains a number of useful details about
                    your Kafka topics. This page helps you answer the following questions: 
How can I see if the replicas in this topic are in sync?
How do I see this topic's retention rate?
How can I see the replication factor for this topic?
How do I see the producers and consumers that are connected to this
                            topic?
How do I find the total number of messages going into this topic, over a
                            specified time range?


Select the topic you are interested in. You can either scroll through the list
                    of topics, or use the Search bar.

Click the green hexagon at the left of the topic to view details.
To perform more tasks in SMM, review the following documents: 
Monitoring Kafka Clusters using Streams Messaging
                            Manager
Managing Alert Policies using Streams Messaging
                            Manager
Managing Kafka Topics using Streams Messaging Manager
Monitoring End-to-End Latency using Streams Messaging
                                Manager



Related informationMonitoring Kafka Clusters using Streams Messaging ManagerManaging Alert Policies using Streams Messaging ManagerManaging Kafka Topics using Streams Messaging ManagerMonitoring End-to-End Latency using Streams Messaging ManagerParent topic: Getting Started on your Streams Cluster