Deploying Data Visualization in CDWCloudera Docs
Deploying Data Visualization in CDW
Learn how to create a Cloudera Data Visualization (CDV) instance in the Cloudera Data
    Warehouse (CDW) data service and how to start the CDV application. You can use CDV with CDW
    either in CDP Public Cloud or with the CDP Private Cloud Data Service to explore the data stored
    in the database catalogs and use visualization to communicate insights across the whole data
    lifecycle.

If you want to create visuals based data stored in CDW, you have to create a CDV instance
        and connect it to Hive or Impala Virtual Warehouse(s).
Data Visualization is not tied to a particular Virtual Warehouse (VW). You can access data
        for your visualizations from multiple Data Catalogs using multiple Hive or Impala Virtual
        Warehouses in various environments. With multiple Data Visualization instances attached to
        an environment, you can connect to different data sets, create dashboards for different
        groups and share your visualizations with different users. noteWhen
          you delete a Virtual Warehouse, your visual artifacts remain intact as long as the CDV
          instance is not deleted.



You are logged into the CDP web interface and you have opened the Data
          Warehouse service
You have DWAdmin role in CDW
You have activated your environment
You have a Hive/Impala warehouse in running state
If you are using CDV in CDW Private Cloud: You have an admin group created in Management Console > User Management. To log in using LDAP, select the Sync Groups on
            Login option from Management Console > Administration > Authentication, so that the associated groups can be imported when you log in to CDV.



In Cloudera Data Warehouse, click Data Visualization in the left
          navigation panel.
A list of existing Data Visualization instances appears, if there are any.

Click ADD NEW to create a new instance.
If you are creating the first Data Visualization instance in CDW, click
            CREATE.



Provide the following information in the New Data Visualization
          modal window:
Mandatory fields are marked with an asterisk.


Name* – Specify a name for the instance.


Environments* – Select the environment that you want CDV to
              be connected to.


User Groups – Add user groups to allow user access to Data
              Visualization for selected groups. If no group is added, all CDP users will have
              non-admin access.


Admin Groups* – Add admin groups to allow configuration
              access to Data Visualization for selected groups.

For more information on Data Visualization permission granularity, see the
                  Security model.



Tagging – Enter keys and values to apply tags to your
              resources for organizing them into a taxonomy.

noteThis field is not available in CDW Private Cloud.



Size* – Select the size of the compute instance from the
              drop-down menu.








Click CREATE.
Instance creation starts. Wait until the CDV instance is in running state.

You can find the list of Data Visualization instances and environments appears under
          the Data Visualization menu that you can open from the left
          navigation panel.






Select one from the list of running CDV instances and click  to start
          Data Visualization.

Alternatively, you can click the launch/options menu (three
            dots) at the end of the row and click Open Data Visualization in
            the pop-up menu.



SSO authentication is enabled by default both in Public Cloud and Private Cloud. If you
            are logged in to the Control Plane, you will be logged into Cloudera Data Visualization
            automatically. If not, log into the Control Plane using your LDAP credentials. Data
            Visualization opens in a new browser tab and you land on the Data Visualization
            homepage, where you can explore sample dashboards and access the in-tool Get
              Started guide for help.
New users logging in to Cloudera Data Visualization are automatically added
            to the viz_guest_group group. You can assign the System Admin role to this group
            to grant new users the permission to create new connections. For more information, see
              Assigning roles to users.



Related informationSecurity model