Metron Default DashboardCloudera Docs
Metron Default Dashboard
The default telemetry data sources installed with Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform
      (CCP) help highlight the useful components available in Kibana 4. The default Metron dashboard
      serves as a starting point for you to build your own customized dashboards. During
      installation, CCP sets up several telemetry data sources bundled with the platform and creates
      panels to display the associated data.
EventsThe first panel in the dashboard highlights the variety of events being consumed by       CCP. It shows the total number of events received, the variety of those events, and a       histogram showing when the events were received.EnrichmentThe next set of dashboard panels shows how CCP can be used to perform real-time       enrichment of telemetry data. All of the IPv4 data received by CCP was cross-referenced       against a geo-ip database. These locations were then used to build this set of dashboard       components.YAFAs part of the default sensor suite, YAF is used to generate flow records. These flow       records provide significant visibility into which actors are communicating over the target       network. A table panel displays the raw details of each flow record. A histogram of the       duration of each flow illustrates that while most flows are relatively short-lived there are a       few that are much longer in this example. Creating an index template that defined this field       as numeric was required to generate the histogram.SnortSnort is a Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) that is being used to generate       alerts identifying known bad events. Snort relies on a fixed set of rules that act as       signatures for identifying abnormal events. Along with displaying the relevant details of each       alert, the panel shows that there is only a single unique alert type; a test rule that creates       a Snort alert on every network packet. Another table was created to show source/destination       pairs that generated the most Snort alerts.Web Request HeaderThe Bro Network Security Monitor extracts application-level information from raw     network packets. In this example, Bro is extracting HTTP and HTTPS requests being made over the     network. The panels highlight the breakdown by request type, the total number of web requests,     and raw details from each web request.DNSBro extracts DNS requests and responses being made over the network. Understanding who     is making those requests, the frequency, and types can provide a deep understanding of the     actors present on the network.Parent topic: Introduction to Metron Dashboard