Functionality of Metron DashboardCloudera Docs
Functionality of Metron Dashboard
The Metron dashboard displays all of the data on a single dashboard enabling you to
      filter through the irrelevant data and display just the information, alerts, and context for
      which you are looking. 
The Metron dashboard has
         several advantages over conventional SIEM tools, including flexibility, and the single pane
         of glass approach that displays all of the data on the same screen, requiring no jumping
         from console to console to gather the information.

Dashboard-Snort Panel


CCP supports two types of
         messages: metadata and alerts. By convention there should be one panel per metadata
         telemetry and one panel that is a "catch all" panel for alerts. The Snort panels are a good
         example of these two panel types. However, the Snort alerts panel only lists alerts from
         Snort because the default Metron dashboard contains only one data source that produces
         alerts.
 When CCP parses the
         telemetry data on ingest, it extracts and normalizes different parts of the message into a
         standard Metron JSON. Standardizing and normalizing field names and format allows CCP to
         search different telemetry messages with a single query.
The first telemetry type
         that CCP supports is metadata messages. Metadata messages are parsed enriched messages in
         the JSON format.
 The second telemetry type
         that CCP supports is alerts telemetries. Alerts telemetries come from IDS sensors like
         Snort or mixed telemetries like application logs that contain some metadata and some alert
         messages. While it is possible to set up a new panel for each alert telemetry, it is more
         desirable to set up a single panel that contains all of the alerts. This guarantees that
         the query will pull in alerts from multiple telemetries (even mixed mode telemetries that
         have some metadata and some alerts associated with them). You can then set up a detailed
         table containing only the alerts. To set telemetry as alert you need to set
            is_alert = true. This is already set up for CCP under the "Alerts"
         table.
The fields displayed for each alerts table can be customized. Ideally you want the fields
      of most importance (as well as the standard fields that telemetries are correlated on) to be
      displayed.
The following table contains a description of each of the Kibana components in the Metron
      dashboard.

Area Chart Panel

You can use the area chart panel for stacked timelines for
            which you want to see the total.
            

Data Table Panel

Use the data table panel to provide a detail breakdown, in
            tabular format, of the results of a composed aggregation. You can generate a data table
            from many other charts by clicking the grey bar at the bottom of the chart.

Detailed Message Panel

A detailed message panel displays the raw data from your search
            query.

Document Table

When you submit a search query, the 500 most recent documents that match the query
            are listed in the Documents table which is displayed in the center
            of the Discover window.

Field List

A list of all of the fields associated with a selected index pattern. This list is
            displayed on the left side of the Discover window.

Line Chart Panel

Use the line chart when you want to display high density time
            series. This chart is useful for comparing one series with another.

Mark Down Widget Panel

You can use the mark down widget panel to provide explanations
            or instructions for the dashboard.

Metric Panel

You can use a metric panel to display a single large number
            such as the number of hits or the average of a numeric field.

Pie Chart Panel

A pie chart is a circular statistical graphic that is ideal for
            displaying the parts of some whole.

Tile Map Panel

The tile map panel type displays a map populated with your
            search results. This panel type requires an Elasticsearch geo_point field that is mapped
            as type:geo_point with latitude and longitude coordinates.

Vertical Bar Chart Panel

You can use the vertical bar chart panel to display histograms.
            Histogram panels represent ingest rates for each individual telemetry. By convention,
            you should set up one for each type.



Parent topic: Introduction to Metron Dashboard