Adding the user or group to a predefined access policyCloudera Docs
Adding the user or group to a predefined access policy
When an authenticated user attempts to view, create, edit, or delete a Schema
        Registry entity, the system checks whether the user has privileges to perform that action.
        These privileges are determined by the Ranger access policies that a user is associated
        with.

For Ranger policies to work,
                you
                must have a user group named schemaregistry. If you use UNIX PAM,
                the schemaregistry user group must be on the node that hosts Schema
                Registry.


Determine the permissions required by a user or user group, and accordingly add the
                user or group to the appropriate predefined access policy.
Each predefined access policy controls access to one or more Schema
                Registry entities.


From the Cloudera Manager home page, click the Ranger
                    link. 
The Ranger management page appears.

Click Ranger Admin Web UI.





The Ranger Log In page appears. 

Enter your user name and password to log in.
The Ranger Service Manager page appears. The
                        page is organized by service. Each cluster is listed under its respective
                        service. For example, the Schema Registry clusters in the environment are
                        listed under Schema Registry. 

Select a cluster from the Schema Registry section.
The List of Policies page appears. 



Click the ID of a policy.
The Edit Policy page appears.

In the Allow Conditions section, add the user or group
                    to the respective Select User or Select
                        Group field.






In
                    the Policy Conditions field, enter the
                    appropriate
                    IP address.

From the Permissions field, select the appropriate
                    permission.

Click Save.

The user now has the rights according to the policy and the
            permissions you assigned to the user. These rights apply to all objects in the entities
            unless you specified otherwise in the Policy Conditions
            field.

Related informationSchema Registry authorization through Ranger access policiesPredefined access policies for Schema RegistryCreating a custom access policyParent topic: Schema Registry authorization through Ranger access policies