Hive unsupported interfaces and featuresCloudera Docs
Hive unsupported interfaces and features
You need to know the interfaces available in HDP or CDH platforms that are not
    supported.
Unsupported Interfaces
The following interfaces are not supported in CDP Private Cloud Base:

Druid
Hcat CLI (however HCatalog is supported)
Hive CLI (replaced by Beeline)
Hive View UI feature in Ambari
LLAP
MapReduce execution engine (replaced by Tez)
Pig
S3 for storing tables (available in CDP Public Cloud only)
Spark execution engine (replaced by Tez)
Spark thrift serverSpark and Hive tables interoperate using the Hive Warehouse
    Connector.
SQL Standard Authorization
Storage Based Authorization
Tez View UI feature in Ambari
WebHCat

You can use Hue in lieu of Hive View.

Storage Based Authorization
Storage Based Authorization (SBA) is no longer supported in CDP. Ranger integration with
        Hive metastore provides consistency in Ranger authorization enabled in HiveServer (HS2). SBA
        did not provide authorization support for metadata that does not have a file/directory
        associated with it. Ranger-based authorization has no such limitation.

Partially unsupported interfaces
Apache Hadoop Distributed Copy (DistCP) is not supported for copying Hive ACID tables.

Unsupported Features
CDP does not support the following features that were available in HDP and CDH platforms:

CREATE TABLE that specifies a managed table locationDo not use the LOCATION clause to
            create a managed table. Hive assigns a default location in the warehouse to managed
            tables. That default location is configured in Hive using the
            hive.metastore.warehouse.dir configuration property, but can be overridden for the
            database by setting the CREATE DATABASE MANAGEDLOCATION parameter.
CREATE INDEX and related index commands were removed in Hive 3, and consequently are not
          supported in CDP.In CDP, you use the Hive 3 default ORC columnar file formats to
            achieve the performance benefits of indexing. Materialized Views with automatic query
            rewriting also improves performance. Indexes migrated to CDP are preserved but render
            any Hive tables with an undroppable index. To drop the index, google the Known Issue for
            CDPD-23041.
Hive metastore (HMS) high availablility (HA) load balancing in CDHYou need to set up
            HMS HA as described in the
            documentation.



Unsupported Connector Use
CDP does not support the Sqoop exports using the Hadoop jar command (the
        Java API) that Teradata documents. For more information, see Migrating data using Sqoop.


Related informationDispCp causes Hive ACID jobs to fail