Configuring date and time for search requirementsCloudera Docs
Configuring date and time for search requirements
Before configuring time on the datasets in Data Visualization, you must navigate to
        the relevant datasets.

On the main navigation bar, click DATA.






In the list of datasets, select the one you want to enable for NLS.

In this example, the Restaurant Inspections in SF dataset has been
                        selected. The Dataset Detail page appears.





On the left navigation menu of the Dataset Detail
                    page, click Time Modeling.



Specifying the date/time field and the format of date/time for dataset


In the Time Modeling page, specify the Date/Time
                    Field of the dataset using the following steps:


At the top of the page, click EDIT.






Under Date/Time Field, click the first drop-down list
                    and select the name of the correct field, one that contains the date
                    information.

The system groups dataset fields in timestamp or other time formats at the
                        top, under the heading Date Fields.
In this example, the 'inspection_date' field has been selected.





Under Date/Time Column, click the second drop-down list
                    and select the appropriate date format mask.




Depending on your location, the masks may have a different format. For
                        example, the two options in this example are YYYY-MM-DD and YYYY-MM-DD
                        HH:mm:ss. In this example, the dataset does not contain the hour, minute,
                        and second information, so the default format YYYY-MM-DD is kept.
note If the date in the dataset is not in this format, a computed dataset
                        column is needed that parses the date information into the desired format.
                    


Click SAVE.



Specifying the default time interval in dataset


In the Time Modeling page, specify the default interval
                by following these steps:


Under Date/Time Field, click the third drop-down list
                    for Default Interval.

From the menu, select the appropriate interval. Depending on your location, you
                    may have different options. For example, the three options in this example are
                    Month, Quarter, and Year.

In the figure below Month is selected.





Click SAVE.


