Using the PCAP Panel UI to Query PCAP DataCloudera Docs
Using the PCAP Panel UI to
      Query PCAP Data
The PCAP panel user interface is ideally suited for the SOC analyst who is identifying
      and investigating malicious events. You can use the PCAP panel to refine query information
      provided by other UIs such as the Alerts or Kibana tools. The PCAP panel uses the fixed filter
      option to query the PCAP data. The PCAP panel provides a graphical user interface to
      explicitly define the parameters used in the query.

Display the Ambari user interface.

If you have not already done so, in the Services pane, select
                  Metron.

From the Quick Links menu, choose Alerts
                  UI.

From the Alerts UI, click the PCAP tab.

Use the date, IP information, and protocol fields to define the parameters of your
               query, then click  (search icon).

noteOnly one job can be run at a time.

You can stop a job by clicking the X next to the job
               progress bar.


noteThe response time of a query is dependent on the precision of your search
                  parameters. If your search parameters are too broad, the query could take a long
                  time and provide results that are too imprecise to be helpful. 



From and To
The starting and end dates of your search.
The From field defaults to 5 days prior to current
                        date. The To field defaults to the current date and
                        time.
IP Source Address
The IP source address.
IP Source Port
The IP source port.


IP Dest Address
The IP destination address.
IP Dest Port
The IP destination port.


Protocol
The network protocol. This should be the string value of the protocol.
Include Reverse Traffic
Queries bi-directionally. Runs the query so that it swaps the order of the
                        query between IP Source address and Destination Address.
Filter
Allows you to run a binary regular expression.
Filtering can be done both by the packet header as well as with a binary
                        regular expression which can be run on the packet payload itself. This
                        filter can be specified with:
The -pf or --packet_filter options
                              for the fixed query filter
The BYTEARRAY_MATCHER(pattern, data) Stellar
                              function. The first argument is the regex pattern and the second
                              argument is the data. The packet data will be exposed by
                                 thepacket variable in Stellar.




To download the PCAP filter data, click Download PCAP, then
               specify where to save the data.

Parent topic: Methods to Execute PCAP Filter Options