Using PCAPCloudera Docs
Using PCAP
The pcap data source can rapidly ingest raw data directly into HDFS from Kafka. As a
      result, you can store all of the raw packet capture data in HDFS and review or query it at a
      later date. 
The pcap data is not
         displayed in the Metron dashboard, but you can query, view, or retrieve the data in order
         to port it to another application like Wireshark. 

Capturing PCAP DataIn your production environment there is likely to be one or more hosts configured with       one or more span ports that receives raw packet data from a packet aggregation device. You can       use one of HCP's packet capture programs to capture the PCAP data; pycapa and DPDK. These       programs are responsible for capturing the raw packet data off the wire and sending that data       to Kafka where it can be ingested by HCP.Processing PCAP DataAfter you capture some pcap data, the next step is to have CCP process the PCAP data       and store it in HDFS. Start the PCAP topology to begin this process. A Storm topology called       'pcap' is launched that consumes the raw PCAP data from the Kafka topic and writes this data       into sequence files in HDFS.View PCAP DataTo view the PCAP data, use the PCAP inspector utility,       $METRON_HOME/bin/pcap_inspector.sh. This utility enables you to retrieve and     view portions of the sequence files which store the PCAP data in HDFS.Filtering PCAP DataYou can search or filter the PCAP data using either a command line tool or a REST       API.Methods to Execute PCAP Filter OptionsCCP provides two methods that you can use to query pcap data using the filter options.       The two available methods are: PCAP user interface and command line. The PCAP user interface       uses the fixed filter option. The CLI method can use either the fixed filter option or the       query filter option.Porting PCAP Data to Another ApplicationYou can port PCAP data to another application using the libpcap-compliant pcap       file.