Recover from full disksCloudera Docs
Recover from full disks
By default, Kudu reserves a small amount of space, 1% by capacity, in its directories.
    Kudu considers a disk full if there is less free space available than the reservation. Kudu
    nodes can only tolerate running out of space on disks on which certain Kudu directories are
    mounted.
The
         following table describes this behavior for each type of directory. The behavior is uniform
         across masters and tablet servers. 


Kudu Directory Type
Crash on Full Disk?

Directory containing WALs
Yes

Directory containing tablet metadata
Yes

Directory containing data blocks only
No (see below)



          Prior to Kudu 1.7.0, Kudu stripes tablet data across all directories, and will avoid
          writing data to full directories. Kudu will crash if all data directories are full.
        

          In 1.7.0 and later, new tablets are assigned a disk group consisting of data
          directories. The number of data directories are as specified by the
          -fs_target_data_dirs_per_tablet flag with the default being
          3. If Kudu is not configured with enough data directories for a full
          disk group, all data directories are used. When a data directory is full, Kudu will
          stop writing new data to it and each tablet that uses that data directory will write
          new data to other data directories within its group. If all data directories for a
          tablet are full, Kudu will crash. Periodically, Kudu will check if full data
          directories are still full, and will resume writing to those data directories if space
          has become available.
        

          If Kudu does crash because its data directories are full, freeing space on the full
          directories will allow the affected daemon to restart and resume writing. Note that it
          may be possible for Kudu to free some space by running:
        
$ sudo -u kudu kudu fs check --repair

          However, the above command may also fail if there is too little space left.
        
 It is
      also possible to allocate additional data directories to Kudu in order to increase the overall
      amount of storage available. Note that existing tablets will not use new data directories, so
      adding a new data directory does not resolve issues with full disks. 

Related informationDirectory configurationsChanging directory configurationParent topic: Kudu recovery