GCP resources and servicesCloudera Docs
GCP resources and services
CDP uses the following resources in your Google Cloud account. 
Use the following guidelines to ensure that your GCP account has all the necessary resources
   required by CDP and that CDP can access these resources:

GCP projectIn order to deploy CDP resources, you must create a project on your Google Cloud   account. GCP APIsReview the following list of GCP APIs and make sure that they are enabled for the                 project used for CDP. GCP regionWhen registering a GCP environment in CDP, you must specify the same GCP region as the   one where your VPC and subnets are located. Cloudera recommends that the buckets used for storage   and logs are also located in the same region as the VPC. VPC network and subnetWhen registering a GCP environment in CDP, you must provide an existing VPC network. CDP   will not create a VPC network for you. Internet connectivityDepending on your network deployment scenario, CDP on GCP requires outbound internet   connectivity and may additionally require inbound connectivity with public IP assignment. Firewall rulesCDP requires that you pre-create a set of firewall rules allowing your organization SSH     and UI access to CDP and allowing internal communication between CDP components. CDP does not     offer an option to create these firewall rules for you.Managed service network connection for CloudSQLA CloudSQL database is created for the Data Lake cluster for external storage. VM instancesCDP provisions VM instances as part of environment creation process (for Data Lake and   FreeIPA) and for compute clusters. Service account for the provisioning credentialThe provisioning credential for Google Cloud relies on a service account that can be   assumed by CDP.Storage buckets and service accounts for logs, backups, and data storageCDP requires that you pre-create and provide buckets for logs and data storage and   create service accounts controlling access to them.Storage bucket for OS imagesBy default, CDP creates a GCS bucket for storing OS images used for Data Lake and Data   Hub VMs, but you can optionally pre-create it if your organization requires it. SSH key pairWhen registering an environment, you will be asked to provide an SSH key pair for admin   access to CDP. The minimum SSH key size is 2048 bits.Customer managed encryption keysBy default, a Google-managed encryption key is used to encrypt disks and Cloud SQL   instances in Data Lake, FreeIPA, and Data Hub clusters, but you can optionally configure CDP to   use a customer-managed encryption key (CMEK) instead. GCP limitsWhen you create your Google Cloud project, Google sets limits to the resources available   to you. In some cases, the limits are insufficient for CDP and you need to request to have them   increased.Overview of GCP resources used by CDPThe following Google Cloud resources are used by CDP and CDP services.