Minimum setup for GCP cloud storageCloudera Docs
Minimum setup for GCP cloud storage
The minimal setup recommended for production includes two GCS buckets (one for
    storing workload data and another for storing logs) and four service accounts.
    Additionally, you can create a third bucket for storing FreeIPA and Data Lake backup data
    separately. If the third bucket is not provided, FreeIPA and Data Lake backup data is stored in
    the Logs bucket.
noteYou may choose a different setup. For example, for getting started with a test environment
   you may want to use a single GCS bucket. Just note that such setup is not covered in this
   documentation.
You need to create service accounts mentioned in the table and while creating
   them:


The Service account name column lists all the service accounts that need to be
     created. You may choose different service account names. The ones provided here follow the same
     terminology as CDP web interface and CDP CLI making it easier to understand where to provide
     them to CDP. 


The Required IAM roles column explains what IAM role each service account needs
          over the item listed in the Scope column. For example, the Logger service
          account requires that you create a custom role with storage.buckets.get and
          storage.objects.create permissions. Next, you navigate to the Logs bucket
          permissions and add the Logger service account as a member with the custom role
          that you created earlier.




Service account name
Description
Required IAM roles
Scope



Logger
This service account will be assigned to all the workload instances in CDP.
       It will be used by CDP to:
Write telemetry logs to the Logs bucket. 
Write FreeIPA backups to the Backups bucket or, if there is no designated bucket
         provided for backups, write to the Logs bucket. 

A custom role with the following permissions: 
storage.buckets.get 
storage.objects.create
If you would like to use a bucket path
                    (gs://<bucket>/<path>) instead of a bucket
                    (gs://<bucket>) for the Logs or Backups
                  bucket, you should also assign the storage.objects.list permission.
For Data Lake backup and restore, a custom role with the following permissions:
storage.buckets.get
storage.objects.create
storage.objects.get
storage.objects.list

Logs bucketand Backups bucket (if
       created)


Data Lake Admin

This service account will be used by CDP services to access workload data. It
       provides full access to the data storage location.
Storage Admin
(roles/storage.admin) IAM roleAlternatively, you can create a custom role and assign the following permissions:
storage.buckets.get 
storage.objects.create
storage.objects.delete
storage.objects.get
storage.objects.list

Data storage bucket For Data Lake backup and restore:
                  Backups bucket, if different from the main data storage bucket


Ranger Audit 
This service account will be used by CDP to write Ranger audits to the storage
       bucket.
Storage Object Admin (roles/storage.objectAdmin) IAM roleAlternatively, you can create a custom role and assign the following
                permissions:
storage.buckets.get 
storage.objects.create
storage.objects.delete
storage.objects.get
storage.objects.list
For Data Lake backup and restore, create a custom role and assign the following
              permissions: 
storage.buckets.get
storage.objects.create
storage.objects.delete
storage.objects.get
storage.objects.list
storage.objects.getIamPolicy
storage.objects.setIamPolicy
storage.objects.update
resourcemanager.projects.get

Data storage bucketFor Data Lake backup and restore: Backups
                bucket, if different from the main data storage bucket


Other service account for data access by users
Depending on your requirements, you may want to create a set of service accounts for
       data access by different user groups.For example, you may want to have one
        service account to assign to data science users and another service account for data
        engineering users. 
Depending on your requirements, you should assign a custom role or a
       predefined role from Cloud Storage roles > Predefined roles on the bucket
       used for data storage.
Data storage bucket


IDBroker 
This service account will be used by CDP to assume the other service
              accounts. 
Workload Identity User (roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser) IAM roleAlternatively, you can create a custom role and assign the following permissions:
iam.serviceAccounts.getAccessToken
iam.serviceAccounts.actAs

Service accounts (All of the above service accounts except
       Logger)


Additionally, assign the same permissions as those assigned to the
                Logger service account.
Logs
              bucket


The following diagram illustrates the relationships between service accounts and buckets and
      between the IDBroker service account and other service accounts. The dotted arrows
      signify which entity needs access to what. For example, the Data Lake admin role must be able
      to access the Logs bucket:





In addition, CDP provisioning credential's service account (that you create as part of Create provisioning service account and generate access
    key) needs to have the Service Account User role to access to the Logger and
    IDBroker service accounts:



You need to perform the following high-level steps in order to create the required
    resources:
You should create the required Logs and Data storage GCS buckets. You can also
          create a separate Backups bucket.
Create the required service accounts. 
Create the required custom roles.
Add service accounts as members to the Logs and Data Storage buckets.  
Add the IDBroker service account as a member to other service accounts.
Add the provisioning service account as a service account user to the Logger and
      IDBroker service accounts.
Once you have met all of the GCS prerequisites, you can register a GCP environment in
     CDP.
The instructions for performing these steps are mentioned below.

Parent topic: Storage buckets and service accounts for logs, backups, and data storage
Create the GCS buckets
Use these steps to create the two required GCS buckets.
Steps


In Google Cloud console, navigate to Cloud Storage > Browser.
Click on +Create bucket.
Name your bucket.
Click Create. 


Repeat these steps for both buckets. Note the bucket names. You will need to provide them to
   CDP later.
For more information, see GCP docs linked below.

Related informationCreating storage buckets
Create the service accounts
Use these steps to create the required service account.
Steps


In Google Cloud console, navigate to the project used for CDP.
Navigate to IAM > Service accounts.
Click on +Create service account.
Provide a name.
Click Create.


Repeat these steps for all service accounts. Copy and save the email addresses
   identifying the created service accounts. You will need to provide them to CDP. Service account
   naming convention is
    <service-account-name>@<project-id>.iam.gserviceaccount.com. 
For more information, see GCP docs linked below.

Related informationCreating a service account
Create the custom role for the Logger
Use these steps to create the custom role for the Logger service
  account.
Steps


In Google Cloud console, in the same project, navigate to IAM > Roles
Click on +Create Role
Enter a name
Click +Add permissions and add all the permissions mentioned in the respective entry
     in the above table. 
When done adding permissions, click Create.


For more information, see GCP docs linked below.

Related informationCreating a custom role
(Optional) Create other custom roles
If you would like to create custom roles for other service accounts, follow the same
  instructions as above. You only need to do this if you don't want to use the predefined roles
  listed in the table. 



Add service accounts as members to buckets
Use the following steps to a add service account as a member to a bucket.
Steps

In Google Cloud console, in the same project, navigate to Cloud Storage >
          Browser.
Perform membership and role assignment for the Logs bucket:
Find your Logs bucket.
Click on  >
                Edit bucket permissions or double-click on the bucket and then click on the
                Permissions tab.
Next to Permissions, click +Add:


Under New members, select the Logger service account and the IDBroker service account. Under Role, select the
            custom role created earlier (in the screenshot the role is called Logger): 


Click Save.

If you created the separate Backups bucket for FreeIPA backups, repeat the above
        steps for the Backups bucket. Use the same Logger service account,
          IDBroker service account and the custom Logger role created
        earlier. 
Repeat the above steps multiple times for the Data storage bucket. You need to
          add the Data Lake Admin, Ranger Audit, and other service accounts (if
          created) as members of the Data storage bucket and assign the respective roles
          mentioned in the above table. Each of these role assignments requires a separate set of
          steps, so you need to repeat the steps as many times as you have service accounts. 

For more information, see GCP docs linked below.

Related informationAdding a member to a bucket-level policy
Add IDBroker as a member to other service accounts
Similarly as with the buckets, you need to navigate to service account permissions and
  add the IDBroker service account as a member with the specified role.
Steps
 You need to do this for all the service accounts except Logger (and except
    IDBroker itself):
In Google Cloud console, in the same project, navigate to IAM > Service
     accounts.
Double-click on the service account entry.
Navigate to the Permissions tab.
Click Grant Access and then add the IDBroker service account as a member with
     the role specified in the above table:


Click Save.

Repeat these steps for all service accounts except Logger.
For more information, see GCP docs linked below.

Related informationAllowing a member to impersonate a single service                account
Add provisioning service account as a service account user
To complete the setup, you need to update the permissions of the Logger and
   IDBroker service accounts, granting the provisioning service account the Service Account
  User role. 
Steps


In GCP IAM console, navigate to Service Accounts.
Find your Logger service account.
Click Manage Permissions to access the Permissions tab.
Click Grant Access and then add the provisioning service account as a member with
          role Service Account User:


Click Save.
Repeat the steps for the IDBroker service account.




Providing the parameters in CDP
Once you've created the bucket and instance profiles, provide the information related to
  these resources in the Register Environment wizard as follows:
Data Access and Data Lake Scaling > Data Access:



UI parameter
What to provide



Assumer Service Account
Select the IDBroker service account created earlier.


Storage Location Base
Enter the name of your Data storage bucket created earlier for the
       storage location base.


Data Access Service Account
Select the Data Lake Admin service account created earlier.


Ranger Audit Service Account
Enter the email address for the Ranger Audit service account created earlier.
       The service account email address uses the following format:
        <service-account-name>@<project-id>.iam.gserviceaccount.com.


Backup Location Base (Optional)
If you created it, enter the name of your Backups bucket for storing FreeIPA and
              Data Lake backups. This is optional. If you don't provide this, FreeIPA and Data Lake
              backups will be stored in the Logger bucket.


Storage and Audit page > Logs


UI parameter
What to provide



Logger Service Account - Logger 
Select the Logger service account created earlier.


Logs Location Base
Enter the name of your Logger bucket created earlier for logs location
       base.


Data Access and Data Lake Scaling > Mappings
You can use this section to set service account to CDP user/group mappings for the additional
   service accounts created for user access to data. Or you can do this once your environment is
   running, as part of Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud storage.

