Onboarding CDP users and groups for GCP cloud storageCloudera Docs
Onboarding CDP users and groups for GCP cloud storage
The minimal setup defined earlier spins up a CDP environment and Data Lake with no end
  user access to cloud storage. Adding users and groups to a CDP environment involves ensuring they
  are properly mapped to service accounts to access cloud storage.
In general, to have new users or groups onboarded, you need to do the following:

Create a new service account and assign appropriate IAMroles or granular
    permissions on the scope of the Storage Location Base or its specific sub-directory. You might
    have already performed this step earlier during setting up the Minimum setup for cloud storage.
In order to use these storage accounts in CDP, create a user/group to service
    account mapping in CDP. 

This needs to be done for each user type. For example, you can create two service
   accounts in GCP, one for Data Scientists and another for Data Engineers, and then you map each of
   them to a group of users in CDP.
The onboarding of users can either happen as part of environment registration, or you can do it
   once an environment is running. The steps below show you how to onboard users once an environment
   is running. 

Parent topic: Storage buckets and service accounts for logs, backups, and data storage
Creating CDP user/group to service account mappings
After creating the additional service accounts, map each of them to a specific user or
  group. 
Before you begin
The steps below show how to add the mappings to an existing environment.
     Alternatively, you can add them during environment registration, as mentioned in the Minimum setup for cloud storage.
noteIf a user is mapped to multiple roles via group membership, the specific role to be used
     needs to be provided at runtime. If the user is mapped directly to a role, the direct mapping
     takes precedence over mapping via group membership. For information on how to specify the role,
     refer to Specifying a group when user belongs to multiple
     groups.
Required role: DataSteward, EnvironmentAdmin, or Owner 
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI

The option to add/modify the service account to user/group mappings is
        available from the Management Console under Environments > click on an environment >
         Actions > Manage Access > IDBroker Mappings.
Under Current Mappings, click Edit.
Click + to display a new field for adding a mapping.
Provide the following:
The User or Group dropdown is pre-populated with CDP users and groups. Select
          the user or group that you would like to map.
Under Role, specify the resource ID of a service account (copied from Google
          Cloud IAM). For example “datascientists@gcp-cdpdev.iam.gserviceaccount.com”. 

Repeat the previous two steps if you would like to add additional mappings. 
Click Save and Sync.

For example, in the example setup we created the following roles:

DATAENG_ROLE - We created this role while onboarding users and we assume that
        there is a DataEngineers group that was created in CDP.
DATASCI_ROLE - We created this role while onboarding users and we assume that
        there is a DataScientists group that was created in CDP.


If you would like to create the mappings via CDP CLI, you can: 

Use the cdp environments get-id-broker-mappings command to
        obtain your current mappings.
Use the cdp environments set-id-broker-mappings command to set
        additional mappings. The only way to use this command is to:
Pass all the current mappings
Add the new mappings.

Next, sync IDBroker mappings to the
        environment:cdp environments sync-id-broker-mappings --environment-name demo3
Finally, check the sync
        status:cdp environments get-id-broker-mappings-sync-status --environment-name demo3



