Firewall rulesCloudera Docs
Firewall rules
CDP requires that you pre-create a set of firewall rules allowing your organization SSH
    and UI access to CDP and allowing internal communication between CDP components. CDP does not
    offer an option to create these firewall rules for you.
You have two options:


Option
VPC type supported for this option
What to do during environment registration





You create all required firewall rules at the VPC level. 


Per project VPC Shared VPC
In this case, you do not provide them to CDP during environment registration
              (That is, during environment registration you select "Do not create firewall rule").
            




You create the intravpc firewall rule at the VPC level. 
Then, you create firewall rules for SSH and UI access via the security access
                  mechanism in the Google Cloud UI. 
If you need to create additional firewall rules (for example if you are not
                  planning to use CCM and you need to open ports 9443 and 443 for CDP), you should
                  create these at the VPC level.


Per project VPC
In this case, you should select the firewall rules created for SSH and UI access
              during environment registration


Firewall rule requirements
You can add firewall rules in Google Cloud directly at the VPC level or via the security
        access control mechanism from VPC network > Firewall > Create firewall rule. For
        instructions on how to create and manage firewall rules in GCP, refer to Using firewall rules in Google documentation. 
The firewall rules that you add should:


Allow the instances in the VPC to connect with each other using TCP and UDP
            protocols on any port. To achieve this, add a TCP/UDP rule that is set to the subnet IP
            range. This is required for internal communication within the VPC. As an example, see
            the intravpcconnection firewall rule, which is set to the subnet IP range
              (10.0.0.0/16) in the following screenshot:






Open TCP ports 22 and 443 to allow access from your organization's CIDR. 
If not using CCM, also open TCP port 9443 to allow access from CDP CIDR. 
If not using CCM, also open TCP port 443 to allow access from CDP CIDR. This is required for the gateway
            nodes.
Open TCP/UDP ports 0-65535 to your VPC’s CIDR (for example 10.10.0.0/16) and your
            subnet’s CIDR (for example 10.0.2.0/24).
Allow ICMP traffic from your internal VPC CIDR (for example 10.10.0.0/16).



noteThe communication via TCP/UDP 0-65535 and ICMP is essential for healthy operation of
          CDP environments, Data Hubs, and data services running within the , so ensure that you open these ports as
          described below. While some services only need well-known fixed ports, a majority of them
          depend on ephemeral (i.e. dynamically or randomly allocated) ports; This is why the
          wildcard 0-65535 TCP/UDP port range is used in the absence of a detailed breakdown of
          individual ports. Since overall access to the  is typically secured by other means, the use of the wildcard
          rules does not pose a higher risk against external attacks.






Related informationCluster Connectivity ManagerParent topic: GCP resources and services