PrerequisitesCloudera Docs
Prerequisites
Learn how to collect the information you need to deploy the Kafka to Cloudera
    Operational Database (COD) ReadyFlow, and meet other prerequisites.
Use the following checklist to ensure that you meet all the requirements before you start
      building your data flow:
For your data ingest source



You have created a Streams Messaging cluster in CDP Public Cloud to host
              your Schema Registry.
For information on how to create a Streams Messaging
              cluster, see Setting up your Streams Messaging Cluster.


You have created at least one Kafka topic.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments and select
                  your environment.
Select your Streams Messaging cluster.
Click on the Streams Messaging Manager icon.
Navigate to the Topics page.
Click Add New and provide the following information:
Topic name
Number of partitions
Level of availability
Cleanup policy
tip
SMM has automatically set Kafka topic configuration parameters. To manually
                      adjust them, click Advanced.

Click Save.




You have created a schema for your data and have uploaded it to the Schema Registry
              in the Streams Messaging cluster.
For information on how to create a new schema, see
                Creating a new schema. For example:
              
{
   "type":"record",
   "name":"SensorReading",
   "namespace":"com.cloudera.example",
   "doc":"This is a sample sensor reading",
   "fields":[
      {
         "name":"sensor_id",
         "doc":"Sensor identification number.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_ts",
         "doc":"Timestamp of the collected readings.",
         "type":"long"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_0",
         "doc":"Reading #0.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_1",
         "doc":"Reading #1.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_2",
         "doc":"Reading #2.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_3",
         "doc":"Reading #3.",
         "type":"int"
      }
   ]
}



You have the Schema Registry Host Name.


From the Management Console, go to
                    Data Hub Clusters and select the Streams Messaging
                  cluster you are using.
Navigate to the Hardware tab to locate the Master
                  Node FQDN. Schema Registry is always running on the Master node, so copy the
                  Master node FQDN.




You have the Kafka broker end points.


From the Management Console, click
                    Data Hub Clusters.
Select the Streams Messaging cluster from which you want to ingest
                  data. 
Click the Hardware tab.
Note the Kafka Broker FQDNs for each node in your cluster. 
Construct your Kafka Broker Endpoints by using the FQDN and Port
                  number 9093 separated by a colon. Separate endpoints by a comma. For example:
                    broker1.fqdn:9093,broker2.fqdn:9093,broker3.fqdn:9093Kafka
                    broker FQDNs are listed under the Core_broker
                  section.




You have the Kafka Consumer Group ID.
This ID is defined by the user. Pick an ID and then
              create a Ranger policy for it. Use the ID when deploying the flow in DataFlow.


You have assigned the CDP Workload User policies to access the consumer group ID and
              topic.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select
                  the environment where you have created your cluster.
Select Ranger. You are redirected to the Ranger
                    Service Manager page. 
Select your Streams Messaging cluster under the Kafka
                  folder. 
Create a policy to enable your Workload User to access the Kafka source topic. 
On the Create Policy page, give the policy a name, select
                    topic from the drop-down list, add the user, and assign
                  the Consume permission.
Create another policy to give your Workload User access to the
                  consumer group ID.
On the Create Policy page, give the policy a name, select
                    consumergroup from the drop-down list, add the user, and
                  assign the Consume permission.




You have assigned the CDP Workload User read-access to the schema.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select
                  the environment where you have created your cluster.
Select Ranger. You are redirected to the Ranger
                    Service Manager page. 
Select your Streams Messaging cluster under the Schema
                    Registry folder. 
Click Add New Policy. 
On the Create Policy page, give the policy a name, specify
                  the schema details, add the user, and assign the Read
                  permission.






For DataFlow



You have enabled DataFlow for an environment.
For information on how to enable DataFlow for an
              environment, see Enabling DataFlow for an Environment.


You have created a Machine User to use as the CDP Workload User.

You have given the CDP Workload User the
              EnvironmentUser role.

From the Management Console, go to the environment for
                  which DataFlow is enabled.
From the Actions drop down, click
                    Manage Access.
Identify the user you want to use as a Workload User.note
The CDP Workload User can be a machine user or your own user name. It is best
                      practice to create a dedicated Machine user for this.

Give that user EnvironmentUser role.



You have synchronized your user to the CDP Public Cloud environment that you enabled
              for DataFlow.
For information on how to synchronize your user to
              FreeIPA, see Performing User Sync.

You have granted your CDP user the
              DFCatalogAdmin and DFFlowAdmin roles to
            enable your user to add the ReadyFlow to the Catalog and deploy the flow definition.

Give a user permission to add the ReadyFlow to the
                    Catalog.
From the Management Console, click User
                        Management.
Enter the name of the user or group you wish to authorize in the
                        Search field.
Select the user or group from the list that displays.
Click Roles > Update Roles.
From Update Roles, select
                        DFCatalogAdmin and click
                        Update.noteIf the ReadyFlow
                        is already in the Catalog, then you can give your user just the
                          DFCatalogViewer role.

Give your user or group permission to deploy flow definitions.
From the Management Console, click
                        Environments to display the Environment
                        List page.
Select the environment to which you want your user or group to deploy flow
                      definitions.
Click Actions > Manage Access to display the Environment Access
                      page.
Enter the name of your user or group you wish to authorize in the
                        Search field.
Select your user or group and click Update
                      Roles.
Select DFFlowAdmin from the list of roles.
Click Update Roles.






For your data ingest target


Ensure that the HBase table you are ingesting data to exists. If not, create one.
            

From CDP Experience UI, click Operational Database from the
                  left navigation pane.
Click Create Database.
Select the environment for which DataFlow is enabled.
Enter a name for your database, and click Create
                  Database.
Go to the newly created database from the Databases
                  page.
Go to Hue UI by clicking Hue SQL Editor.
Click the HBase icon to go to HBase home.
Click New Table.The Create New
                      Table dialog appears.
Enter table name and column family name, and click
                    Submit.A blank table is created.
Go to the newly created table and click New Row.The
                      Insert New Row dialog appears.
Click Add Field, and then specify row key, column name,
                  and cell value.
noteThe cloumn name should follow the format: family:
                        column_name, where, family is the column family
                      name.

Click Submit.

Obtain the table name, column family name, and row identifier of the HBase table in
            COD.

From CDP Experience UI, click Operational Database from the
                left navigation pane.
Select the database where your HBase table exists.
Go to Hue UI by clicking Hue SQL Editor.
Click the HBase icon to go to HBase home.
Click the HBase table in COD.
After the table appears, obtain the table name, column family name, and row
                identifier.

You have set Ranger policies for HBase table.
            

From the Cloudera Management Console, click
                Environments.
Use the search field to find and select the CDP environment for which DataFlow is
                enabled.
Go to the Ranger UI by clicking Ranger.
Select your database from the HBase folder.
Click Add New Policy.
Enter policy name, HBase table name, HBase column-family name, and HBase column
                value.
In Allow Conditions section, enter the name of the Machine
                User, you created in CDP, prefixed with srv_.
Click Add Permissions, and assign Read and
                  Write permissions to the user.
Click Add.


Obtain the hbase-site.xml file. 
             To
              get the hbase-site.xml file from CDP Data Hub:
From the Cloudera Management Console, click
                  Environments.
Use the search field to find and select the CDP environment for which DataFlow
                  is enabled.
Go to Data Hubs.
Select the Operational Database cluster.
Go to Cloudera Manager by clicking CM-UI.
Click Clusters from the left-navigation pane, and click
                    hbase.
Click Actions >  Download Client Configuration to download the client configuration zip file.
Unzip the zip file to obtain the hbase-site.xml file.
 To get the hbase-site.xml file from CDP Experience:
From CDP Experience UI, click Operational Database from
                  the left navigation pane.
Select the database where your HBase table exists.
Go to HBase Client Tarball tab.
Copy the HBase Client Configuration URL.
Use the URL as a command to download the client configuration zip file.
Unzip the zip file to obtain the hbase-site.xml file.





Related conceptsList of required configuration parameters for the Kafka to Cloudera Operational Database ReadyFlow