August 16, 2022Cloudera Docs
August 16, 2022
This release (2.1.0-h1-b10) of Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) on CDP Public Cloud introduces
    improvements for Prometheus performance, reliability and performance improvements for upgrades,
    as well as a number of additional bug fixes.
Improvements and fixed issues

Fixed regression in DFX 2.1.0 where new deployments contain NiFi pods with misconfigured
          cpu/memory limits. These limits are lower than necessary, leading to the possibility of
          NiFi pod crashing due to off-heap storage growing large enough to cause an Out of Memory
          error.
CDPDFX-5483 - Fixed a bug where disabling DataFlow from certain failure states can
          potentially leave behind some cloud resources deployed by DataFlow.
CDPDFX-5486 - Several settings for Prometheus instances running on the workload cluster
          have been adjusted to improve performance. This includes a reduction in the amount of
          metrics collected by Prometheus instances and enabling write ahead log compression.
CDPDFX-5487 - Improved Enable, Upgrade/rollback and Create
            deployment performance to more reliably interpret status of helm releases and NiFi
          resources for improved success rates.
CDPDFX-5494 - Fixed an issue where cluster node scaling events are not being properly
          surfaced to the user.
CDPDFX-5495 - Fixed a bug where upgrades failed if a deployment was created with
          autoscaling disabled, but since was updated in any way (node count, params, and so
          on).
CDPDFX-5498 - Improved upgrade timeout configurations to account for delays upgrading
          clusters with high node counts.
CDPDFX-5568 - Fixed a bug causing some environments not to show in the filter options on
          the Deployment Dashboard.
CDPDFX-5571 - Fixed potential for up to 10-minute delay during upgrades where helm
          repository sync is unnecessarily delayed. This could sometimes lead to timeout failures
          during upgrade.
CDPDFX-5572 - Fixed a bug in the user interface on the Deployment Dashboard when an
          environment filter option is selected, but becomes no longer valid.
CDPDFX-5606 - Fixed a bug in retrying a failed DataFlow enablement where a new enable
          attempt fails fast and old infrastructure is eventually deleted. Old infrastructure
          details are not cleared from the database, so subsequent retries attempt and fail to clean
          up infrastructure that is already deleted.
CDPDFX-5676 - Fixed an issue where in-cluster certificates are renewed, but certain
          cluster resources are not automatically restarted to start using the new
          certificates.
CDPDFX-5736 - Fixed an issue limiting upload of flow definition files to the catalog to
          1MB in size. Flow uploads are now supported up to 25MB in size.
CDPDFX-5780 - Fixed an issue preventing creation of deployments with large flow
          definitions.



Parent topic: Older releases