March 14, 2023Cloudera Docs
March 14, 2023
This release (2.4.0--b317) of Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) on CDP Public Cloud makes the Flow
    Designer generally available to all CDP Public Cloud customers, introduces a streamlined way to
    collect log files, supports new NiFi and Kubernetes versions and introduces several usability
    improvements when creating and managing flow deployments through the UI.
New features and changes


The ability to design flows with the new Flow Designer is now generally
            available to all CDP Public Cloud customers.


The CDP cli now supports commands to generate diagnostic bundles for CDF for
            troubleshooting.


Flow Deployments and Test Sessions now support the latest Apache NiFi 1.20
            release.


When creating a deployment through the deployment wizard, users can now
            filter for sensitive or empty parameters.


CDF now creates Kubernetes clusters with version 1.23 in AWS EKS and 1.24 in
            Azure AKS.


Upgrading and restarting deployments now triggers a NiFi Health Alert if the
            NiFi cluster does not return to a healthy state. This can be cleared by performing a
            Restart Deployment once the underlying issue has been fixed.


Restart Deployment now supports force suspending the NiFi Flow in case the
            running flow itself is impairing the health of the NiFi cluster.


Enable DataFlow action now performs validation steps immediately and fails
            fast if there are issues with the request.


Some enablement failure messages are improved when the failure is due to
            common issues surrounding volume provisioning.


The following ReadyFlows have been added to the ReadyFlow Gallery:


HubSpot to S3/ADLS


JDBC to JDBC


Kafka to Apache Iceberg


Shopify to S3/ADLS





Fixed issues

CDPDFX-6416 - Reduced default tags applied to cloud resources to avoid tag
          limit concerns 
CDPDFX-6740 - Fixed private cluster support for AKS 
CDPDFX-6542 - Fixed tags not being applied to Load Balancer created for
          DataFlow ingress 
CDPDFX-6872 - Fixed issue with control plane missing alert resolutions 
CDPDFX-6591 - DFX Local stability improvements 
Various upgrade reliability improvements



Parent topic: Older releases