February 13, 2023Cloudera Docs
February 13, 2023
This release (2.3.0-h3-b4) of Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) on CDP Public Cloud addresses
    various bug fixes and improvements in Flow Designer, private cluster support, upgrades and
    general stability.
Fixed issues
Stability Improvements


CDPDFX-6591 - Added liveness probe to dfx-local to influence a restart if the
            container becomes unhealthy.


CDPDFX-6701 - Fixed a resource leak that would eventually lead to degraded
            behavior of the application like interruption of workload communication (through
            heartbeats) to the control plane or the Flow Designer not displaying feedback for
            running test sessions and preventing processors from being started.


Flow Designer


CDPDFX-6641 - Updated the redis client in the workload to use a connection
            pool that was previously aggressively allocating new threads.


CDPDFX-6635 - Fixed an issue with Flow Designer UI that would continually
            attempt to reconnect/resubscribe even when their authentication expires.


CDPDFX-6636 - Fixed an issue with Flow Designer test session event blocking
            due to infinite event retry.


CDPDFX-6632 - Ensure additional access rights are enforced when using Flow
            Designer.


CDPDFX-6695 - Fixed issues in the Flow Designer that prevented applying
            Parameter changes when an asset was removed.


CDPDFX-6695 - Fixed an issue in the Flow Designer where editing a parameter
            with multiple assets does not trigger a message to apply changes.


Private Cluster Support


CDPDFX-6740 - Fixed an issue causing AKS private clusters to fail when
            waiting for load balancer IP via cluster proxy service.


Other Issues


CDPDFX-6731 - Fixed an issue with CDF 2.1.0-b123 or older not being able to
            perform workload access certificate renewal.


CDPDFX-6634 - Fixed issue that would result in the user being redirected to
            the wrong URL following successful authentication on the workload.


CDPDFX-6655 - Fixed issue that would load the app switcher in the sidebar in
            the Deployment Manager and Flow Designer with the incorrect options.


CDPDFX-6567 - Fixed an issue with logging in AWS AP region 3 (Jakarta).


CDPDFX-6693 - Fixed navigation when using the Home
            button from the Manage Deployment page.


CDPDFX-6713 - Fixed DataFlow configuration update failures when attempting to
            add new authorized IP ranges without changing minimum or maximum cluster capacity.



Technical Service Bulletins

TSB 2023-648: ApacheNiFi pods not properly configured with fully qualified
          domain name causing communication errors
TSB 2023-649: File watcher container in MiNifi logging
          pod causing process ID leaks


Behavioral changes
If you defined a custom NAR storage location during flow deployment in earlier releases,
        the setting got stored as the default value for that environment. CDF 2.3.0-h3 changes this
        behavior: custom NAR configuration does not get stored for the environment any more. This
        means every time you deploy a flow that requires custom NARs, you need to configure the
        access credentials and the storage location. 


Parent topic: Older releases