June 28, 2022Cloudera Docs
June 28, 2022
This release (2.1.0-b123) of Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) on CDP Public Cloud introduces
    support for DataFlow service upgrades as a technical preview feature, Inbound Connection
    configuration through the create-deployment CLI command, Kubernetes 1.22 as well as additional
    improvements and fixes.
New features and changes

[Technical Preview] CDF environment and deployment upgrades are now supported.CDF
            service upgrades require a specific entitlement that is granted by request only. Reach
            out to your Cloudera Account Representative or open a support ticket to request CDF
            service upgrades.
The create-deployment CLI command now supports Inbound
          Connections.
CDF now correctly configures the deployment when it detects any of the two
          reserved Controller Services Default NiFi SSL Context Service and
            Inbound SSL Context Service regardless of whether they are external
          references or not.
Kubernetes Version 1.22 is now the default Kubernetes version for CDF. When
          CDF is enabled, it creates AWS EKS and Azure AKS clusters based on version 1.22.
CDF now supports Data Lake scaling. After the Data Lake scale operation has
          completed, affected deployments will show an active alert and need to be manually
          restarted to put the new configuration in effect. 

The Event Hub to ADLS ReadyFlow now allows you to specify an Event Hub
              Service Bus Endpoint.



Fixed issues

CDPDFX-5317 - Fixed an issue that could cause timeouts when uploading assets as part of
          the Deployment Wizard
CDPDFX-5400 - Fixed several issues that could cause cluster and deployment Prometheus
          instances to run out of memory
CDPDFX-5322 - Fixed an issue with caching of UI content that sometimes required user to
          perform a hard refresh

CDPDFX-5261 - Fixed an issue that causes autoscaling CPU utilization target
            to change from 75% to 80% if user performs a deployment update
CDPDFX-5325 - Use availability sets instead of zones for Azure to reduce the
            chance of a customer failing to enable DataFlow due to instance type resource
            constraints in certain regions
CDPDFX-5319/CDPDFX-5385 - Improved resiliency when recovering from network
            disruptions and database failovers to improve the chances of deployment related requests
            succeeding
CDPDFX-5260 - Expanded the types of cluster resource logs that are exported
            to cloud storage
CDPDFX-5483 - Fixed an issue where some cloud resources are not deleted
            properly when disabling DataFlow after it has encountered an update failure or upgrade
            failure




Parent topic: Older releases