



























































Logging Modernization Solution Kit






























X
Register now to access the Logging Modernization Solution Kit








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Go back







 




   


Logging Modernization Solution Brief
Webinar: Logging Modernization: Unlock the Value of Machine Data
NiFi for Dummies eBook
Cloudera Flow Management Datasheet
Cloudera Edge Management Datasheet
Logging Modernization Demo

Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy











Welcome to the Logging Modernization Solution Kit






Thank you for your interest in Cloudera’s Logging Modernization solution.  It is a holistic approach that unlocks the value of machine-generated data by using a modern comprehensive streaming platform like Cloudera DataFlow.  This platform should include everything from real-time data ingestion, edge processing, transformation, and routing through to descriptive, prescriptive, and predictive analytics.
Logging Modernization: Unlock the Value of Machine Data Webinar is a great overview of the solution which outlines the challenges of log analytics and how a modern approach can lower indexing cost, complete log analytics projects faster, and help your business stay ahead of market changes.  This webinar will also provide a thorough 10-minute demonstration of Apache NiFi
The NiFi for Dummies eBook is excellent for a deep dive into the product and its capabilities.
Choose the Logging Modernization Demo if you want a quick video demonstration of ingesting machine-generated data from the edge.
If you want a digital download, the Cloudera Flow Management and Cloudera Edge Management datasheets are great content to give you an overview and capabilities of both products.
You can learn more about Cloudera DataFlow by clicking here.











 



 





Take the next step




 
Contact Sales






 
Call (888) 789-1488






 
Downloads











Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 





