Before creating your clusterCloudera Docs
Before creating your cluster
Before you start creating your Streaming Analytics Data Hub cluster, you need to ensure
    that you have set up the environment properly and have all the necessary accesses to use CDP
    Public Cloud.


You have CDP login credentials.
You have an available CDP environment.
You have a running Data Lake.
You have a CDP username and the predefined resource role of this user is
            EnvironmentAdmin.
Your CDP user is synchronized to the CDP Public Cloud environment.

importantEnsure that the Runtime version of the Data Lake cluster matches the
        Runtime version of the Data Hub cluster that you are about to create. If these versions do
        not match, you may encounter warnings and/or errors.


Related informationGetting started as a userAWS environmentsAzure environmentsGCP environmentsData lakes
Assigning resource roles
As an administrator, you need to give permissions to users or groups to be able to
        access and perform tasks in your Data Hub environment.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments and select your environment.

Click Actions > Manage Access.

Search for a user or group that needs access to the environment.

Select EnvironmentUser role from the list of Resource
                    Roles.

Click Update Roles.
The Resource Role for the selected user or group will be
                    updated.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you want to create a
                    cluster.

Click Actions > Synchronize Users to FreeIPA.

Click Synchronize Users.

noteThere might be cases where the status of the environment is synchronized
                        with warnings and has failed status. This does not indicate that the
                        synchronization has failed.




Creating IDBroker mapping
As an administrator, you must create IDBroker mapping for a user or group to access
        cloud storage. As a part of Knox, the IDBroker allows a user to exchange cluster
        authentication for temporary cloud credentials.
You must create IDBroker mapping for a user or group to
            have access to the S3 cloud storage. As a part of Knox, the IDBroker allows a user to
            exchange cluster authentication for temporary cloud credentials. The following roles are
            created when registering the CDP environment:
idbroker-role: granting permissions to IDBroker instances
                    associated with the CDP environment
datalake-admin-role: granting access to CDP cloud
                    resources
logs-role: granting access to the logs storage location
For using Streaming Analytics in CDP Public Cloud, you must make sure that the
            users who run Flink jobs are associated with the ARN of the
                datalake-admin-role as it grants access to the cloud resources
            required to run the Flink service.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments and select your environment.

Click Actions > Manage Access.

Click on the IDBroker Mappings tab.

Click Edit to add a new user or group and assign roles
                    to have writing access for the cloud storage.

Search for the user or group you need to map.

Go to the IAM Summary page where you can find information about your cloud
                    storage account.

Copy the Role ARN.

Go back to the IDBroker Mapping interface on the Cloudera Management Console
                    page.

Paste the Role ARN to your selected user or group.

Click Save and Sync.



Setting workload password
As a user, you need to set a workload password for your EnvironmentUser account to be
        able to access the SQL Stream Builder nodes through SSH connection.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments and select your environment.

Click Actions > Manage Access.

Click Workload Password.

Give a chosen workload password for your user.

Confirm the given password by typing it again.

Click Set Workload Password.


