Creating your clusterCloudera Docs
Creating your cluster
When creating your Streaming Analytics cluster, you must choose from the Light and
        Heavy duty options, and further select the cluster definition that matches your cloud
        provider for the environment. You also need to pay attention to the cloud storage settings
        where Flink saves the checkpoints and savepoints. 

After you have met the prerequisites, you are ready to create your Streaming
                Analytics cluster using a default cluster definition.


Log into the CDP web interface.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you want to create a
                    cluster.

Click Create Data Hub.
The following page is displayed:



Select Cluster Definition.

Select the Streaming Analytics cluster definition from the Cluster
                        Definition drop-down list depending on your operational
                    objectives.

The following template options are available:
7.2.17 - Streaming
                                Analytics Light Duty for AWS
7.2.17 - Streaming
                                Analytics Light Duty for Azure
7.2.17 - Streaming
                                Analytics Light Duty for GCP
7.2.17 - Streaming
                                Analytics Heavy Duty for AWS
7.2.17 - Streaming
                                Analytics Heavy Duty for Azure
7.2.17 - Streaming
                                Analytics Heavy Duty for GCP

For more information on templates, see Streaming Analytics deployment
                            scenarios.
The list of services is automatically shown below the selected cluster
                        definition name.


Provide a cluster name and add tags you might need.
You can define tags that will be applied to your cluster- related resources on
                    your cloud provider account. For more information about tags, see
                    Tags.

Optionally, use the Configure Advanced Options section
                    to customize the infrastructure settings.

noteEnsure that the right cloud storage path is given in Advanced Options > Cloud Storage. Cloudera recommends saving the checkpoints and savepoints to
                        the S3 cloud storage to make the saved files available throughout all
                        cluster deployments. You can also use HDFS, however Cloudera only recommends
                        this solution for temporary storage of checkpoints and savepoints.


Click Provision Cluster.


You are redirected to the Data Hub cluster dashboard, and a new tile representing
                your cluster appears at the top of the page.


Related informationCreate a cluster from a definition on AWS Create a cluster from a definition on Azure Create a cluster from a definition on GCP TagsStreaming Analytics deployment scenarios