Use a non-transparent proxy with Cloudera Machine Learning on AWS environmentsCloudera Docs
Use a non-transparent proxy with Cloudera Machine Learning on AWS environments
Cloudera Machine Learning (CML) can use non-transparent proxies if the environment is
  configured to use a network proxy in Management Console. 
Enterprise customers frequently need to deploy CDP in a virtual network that does not have
   direct internet access. Specifically, the proxy server may be located in a different virtual
   network, in order to filter traffic for allowed domains or IPs.
Transparent and non-transparent network proxies differ in the following ways.

Transparent network proxy

Proxy is unknown to clients and requires no additional client configuration.
Usually, connections by way of transparent proxies are configured in route tables on your
       AWS VPC.


Non-transparent proxy


Clients are aware of non-transparent proxies and each client must be specifically
       configured to use the non-transparent proxy connection.
You pass connection or security information (username/password) along with the connection
       request sent by clients.



You can configure an AWS environment to use non-transparent proxy connections when activating
   environments for Cloudera Machine Learning (CML).
noteTo use a non-transparent proxy, the entitlement
    ML_ENABLE_NON_TRANSPARENT_PROXY must be enabled. Contact your administrator for
   more information.
Configuring the non-transparent proxy
You configure the non-transparent proxy in Management Console > Shared Resources > Proxies, and then selecting Create Proxy Configuration. For more
    information, see Using a non-transparent proxy. 
There is one important step for creating a non-transparent proxy for CML. In the
     Create Proxy UI, No Proxy Hosts field, enter the
    following:
    runtime-manager.mlx.svc.cluster.local,ds-operator.mlx.svc.cluster.local,feature-flags.mlx,governance-server.mlx.svc.cluster.local,
usage-reporter.mlx.svc.cluster.local,ds-vfs.mlx.svc.cluster.local,
ds-cdh-client.mlx.svc.cluster.local,fluentd.mlx.svc.cluster.local,
livelog.mlx.svc.cluster.local,tgtgen.mlx.svc.cluster.local,web.mlx.svc.cluster.local,
s2i-client.mlx.svc.cluster.local,livelog.mlx,archiver.mlx.svc.cluster.local,cldr.work,
cloudera.site
These hostnames are CML internal service endpoints.

Use a non-transparent proxy in a different VPC
If the customer wants to copy the hostname for the non-transparent proxy and the
    non-transparent proxy is configured in a different VPC, then CDP needs the CIDR of the
    non-transparent proxy to allow the inbound access. To configure this, in the
     Provision Workspace UI, select Use hostname for
     non-transparent proxy and enter the CIDR range in Inbound Proxy CIDR
     Ranges.


Related informationUsing a non-transparent proxy