CCP TerminologyCloudera Docs
CCP Terminology
The Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP) documentation uses terminology specific to
      the cybersecurity industry, Hadoop, and the CCP application. 

alerts

Provides information about current security issues, vulnerabilities, and
                  exploits.

Apache Kafka

A fast, scalable, durable, fault-tolerant publish-subscribe messaging system you can
            use for stream processing, messaging, website activity tracking, metrics collection and
            monitoring, log aggregation, and event sourcing.

Apache Storm

Enables data-driven, automated activity by providing a real-time, scalable,
            fault-tolerant, highly available, distributed solution for streaming data.

Apache ZooKeeper

A centralized service for maintaining configuration information, naming, providing
            distributed synchronization, and providing group services.

cybersecurity

The protection of information systems from theft or damage to hardware, software,
            and the information on them, as well as from disruption or misdirection of the services
            they provide.

data management

A set of utilities that get data into Apache HBase in a format that allows data
            flowing through Metron to be enriched with the results. Contains integrations with
            threat intelligence feeds exposed through TAXII, as well as simple flat file
            structures.

enrichment data source

A data source containing additional information about telemetry ingested by
                  CCP.

enrichment bolt

The Apache Storm bolt that enriches the telemetry.

enrichment data loader

A streaming or a batch loader that stages data from the enrichment source into CCP
                  so that telemetry is enriched with the information from the enrichment source in
                  real time.

Forensic Investigator

Collects evidence on breach and attack incidents and prepares legal responses to
            breaches.

Model as a Service

An Apache Yarn application that deploys machine learning and statistical models,
            along with the associated Stellar functions, onto the cluster so that they can be
            retrieved in a scalable manner.

parser

An Apache Storm bolt that transforms telemetry from its native format to JSON so
            that Metron can use it.

profiler

A feature extraction mechanism that can generate a profile describing the behavior
            of an entity. An entity might be a server, user, subnet, or application. After a profile
            defines normal behavior, you can build models to identify anomalous behavior.

Security Data Scientist

Works with security data, performing data munging, visualization, plotting,

            exploration, feature engineering, and model creation. Evaluates and monitors the
            correctness and currency of existing models.

Security Operations Center (SOC)

A centralized unit that manages cybersecurity issues for an organization by
            monitoring, assessing, and defending against cybersecurity attacks.

Security Platform Engineer

Installs, configures, and maintains security tools. Performs capacity planning and
            upgrades. Establishes best practices and reference architecture with respect to
            provisioning, managing, and using the security tools. Maintains the probes to collect
            data, load enrichment data, and manage threat feeds.

SOC Analyst

Responsible for monitoring security information and event management (SIEM) tools;
            searching for and investigating breaches and malware, and reviewing alerts; escalating

            alerts when appropriate; and following security standards.

SOC Investigator

Responsible for investigating more complicated or escalated alerts and breaches,
            such as Advanced Persistent Threats (APT). Hunts for malware attacks. Removes or
            quarantines the malware, breach, or infected system.

Stellar

A custom data transformation language used throughout CCP: from simple field
                  transformation to expressing triage rules.

telemetry data source

The source of telemetry data, from low level (packet capture), to intermediate level
            (deep packet analysis), to very high level (application logs).

telemetry event

A single event in a stream of telemetry data, from low level (packet capture), to
            intermediate level (deep packet analysis), to very high level (application logs).



