Cloudera Data Warehouse service architectureCloudera Docs
Cloudera Data Warehouse service architecture
Administrators and IT teams can get a high-level view of the Cloudera Data Warehouse
  (CDW) service components and how they are integrated within the CDP stack. 
The CDW service is composed of Database Catalogs (storage prepared for use with a Virtual
   Warehouse) and Virtual Warehouses (compute environments that can access a Database Catalog) and
   they are decoupled by design. Multiple Virtual Warehouses of differing sizes and types can be
   configured to operate on the same Database Catalog, providing workload diversity and isolation on
   the same data at the same time.



Database Catalog
A Database Catalog is a logical collection of table and view metadata,
    security permissions, and other information. The data context is comprised of table and view
    definitions, transient user and workload contexts from the Virtual Warehouse, security
    permissions, and governance artifacts that support functions like auditing. Multiple Virtual
    Warehouses can query a Database Catalog. An environment can have multiple Database Catalogs.
When you activate an environment from the Data Warehouse, a default
    Database Catalog is created automatically and named after your environment. The default Database
    Catalog shares the HMS database with HMS on the base cluster. This enables you to access any of
    the objects or data sets created in the base clusters from CDW Virtual Warehouses and vice
    versa. Queries and query history saved in the Hue database are stored in the Database Catalog
    and not deleted when you delete a Virtual Warehouse.
You can load demo data to use in Hue when you add a non-default Database Catalog to your
    environment.

Virtual Warehouses
A Virtual Warehouse is an instance of compute resources running in Kubernetes to execute the
    queries. From a Virtual Warehouse, you access tables and views of your data in a Database
    Catalog's Data Lake. Virtual Warehouses bind compute and storage by executing authorized queries
    on tables and views through the Database Catalog. Virtual Warehouses can scale automatically,
    and ensure performance even with high concurrency. All JDBC/ODBC compliant tools connect to the
    virtual warehouse to run queries. Virtual Warehouses also expose HS2-compatible endpoints for
    CLI tools such as Beeline, Impala-Shell, and Impyla.

Data Visualization
In addition to Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses that you use to access your data, CDW
    integrates Data Visualization for building graphic representations of data, dashboards, and
    visual applications based on CDW data, or other data sources you connect to. You, and authorized
    users, can explore data across the entire CDP data lifecycle using graphics, such as pie charts
    and histograms. You can arrange visuals on a dashboard for collaborative analysis.


