Support for On-Demand lineageCloudera Docs
Support for On-Demand lineage
The on-demand lineage provides improved end user experience to handle data flow and
        related entities.
Currently, the lineage works with minimal basic data to return all the connected entities
            for any single request. The Atlas UI consumes additional time to load when the lineage
            response is larger than usual and also when the lineage is multi-level, the cost of
            processing the data could be higher.
To handle these conditions, the concept of on-demand lineage is introduced.
            Using the on-demand lineage, you can provide more control to the user for depth and
            height of specific lineage, apart from increasing the number of nodes from three (which
            is default with three input and output nodes respectively) and finally displaying the
            maximum number of nodes. On-demand lineage also processes limited lineage data that
            helps in the optimization of the UI. 
In hindsight, the lineage data is broken down into parts and when the user
            clicks on the specific “expandable” button in the lineage, only then the lineage shows
            up fully (or as the lineage data is broken) to provide additional information.







note The existing lineage setup is also supported but the user has to
                configure additional settings to bring up the on-demand lineage feature.

You can set the following parameters to use the on-demand lineage:

atlas.lineage.on.demand.default.enabled = true
atlas.lineage.on.demand.default.node.count = 3 (Default
                value is 3)
atlas.lineage.max.node.count = 5k (Atlas supports upto 9k
                nodes)

Note the following:


If you pass an inputRelationsLimit / outputRelationsLimit
                    in the payload, the entered values are applicable only for that specific GUID,
                    and for other nodes Atlas considers the default value as input/output Relations
                    Limit.


If you do not provide any limits or if you have 0 as the limit, Atlas
                    considers default configurations.


Order nodes in lineage are based on how the nodes are stored in
                    JanusGraph.


The lineage data is retrieved from JanusGraph (retrieving the edges and
            vertices). The order in which the data availability is provided solely depends on the
            order JanusGraph stores and returns vertices. And the order of vertices in lineage is
            generally consistent all the time. In other words, every time a request is initiated for
            lineage data, the result is in the same order and the lineage on-demand feature is
            designed based on the consistent ordering as available in the JanusGraph database.

You can update the node count value using the Settings >
                    Nodes On Demand option in Atlas UI. This, apart from
                updating the same using Cloudera Manager.


