Fixed Issues in Streams Messaging ManagerCloudera Docs
Fixed Issues in Streams Messaging Manager
Review the list of Streams Messaging Manager issues that are resolved in Cloudera
    Runtime 7.2.17.


CDPD-46728: SMM UI shows the consumerGroup instead of the
               instances on the Profile page's right hand side
The Consumer Group Profile page now
               correctly shows the consumer instances on the right hand side. Previously the
               consumer groups were shown.


CDPD-46465: Searching for workers on the connector overview
               page freezes the page
Using the search field on the Connect > Cluster Profile tab no longer freezes the page.


CDPD-45406: The Connector Profile page of unassigned
               connectors is blank
The Connector Profile page of unassigned
               connectors are now correctly rendered and display that the connector is in an
               unassigned status.


CDPD-46073: Data Explorer loads indefinitely
The Data Explorer page no longer breaks
               if the partition parameter is manually removed from the URL.


CDPD-26633: The SMM API returns SMTP passwords of email
               notifiers in its response 
The /notifiers endpoint of the SMM API no
               longer returns the SMTP password in its responses. 


CDPD-49227: The Cluster Replications page crashes if the
               co-located cluster unknown to SRM
The Cluster Replications page is now
               correctly displayed even when the co-located Kafka cluster is unknown to SRM.


CDPD-56086: The Data Explorer modal displays the messages of
               the wrong topic
The Data Explorer modal that you open by
               clicking  on the Topics page now displays the messages of
               the selected topic.


CDPD-49696: Certain alerts may crash the Alerts page
Composite alerts with one of the conditions containing an
               assertion on cluster metrics no longer crashes the UI.



Parent topic: Fixed Issues In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17