What's new in Streams Messaging ManagerCloudera Docs
What's new in Streams Messaging Manager
Learn about the new features of Streams Messaging Manager in Cloudera Runtime
  7.2.17.
UI updates
The style of SMM UI is updated. This update includes various changes to the colors, fonts, and
        overall style of the UI. Additionally, the following functional changes and improvements are
          made:
Data Explorer


The modal window that you use to view messages now includes a copy to clipboard
                  button if the message you are viewing is long.
A 
                  (Refresh) option is added next to the FROM OFFSET field.
                  This option refreshes the partition offset range and fetches the latest messages.
                


Connector Configuration and Connector Settings pages


A new option, Add, is added to the Import a
                    Connector config… modal. This option enables you to import connector
                  configuration properties without overriding existing properties.
Property keys can now be filtered based on their group and importance. 
A Reset Filters option is added, this option resets all
                  search filters.
Three new actions are added that modify the configuration as a whole. The
                  options are Remove all, Reset, and
                    Export. These actions are available in a new
                    Actions drop-down. 
The Import Connector Configuration… option is moved to
                  the Actions drop-down and is renamed to
                    Import. 
The Deployment Status modal now correctly displays the
                  status of the deployment process.
An error message is added that notifies you if validation errors are found for
                  properties that are currently filtered.
If available, the display names of configuration property keys are displayed
                  above the property key.




Highly available Kafka Connect integration
SMM uses the Kafka Connect service role’s REST URL to establish a connection with Connect and
        serve Connect metrics. Previously, even if your Connect deployment was highly available and
        had multiple service roles deployed, SMM could only be configured with a single connection
        URL. From now on, multiple URLs can be configured. If the Connect service role that SMM is
        connected to fails, SMM automatically connects to a different instance that is
        available.
As a result of this change, the Kafka Connect Host and Kafka
     Connect Port properties are replaced by the Kafka Connect Rest
     HostPorts property. If Kafka Connect Rest HostPorts is left
    empty (default), SMM is automatically configured with the host, port, and protocol of the
    Connect service role instances belonging to the Kafka service selected with the Kafka
     Service SMM property.
If you previously configured Kafka Connect Host and Kafka
     Connect Port, the values set in the properties are automatically migrated to
     Kafka Connect Rest HostPorts when you upgrade.


Parent topic: What's New In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17