Known Issues in Apache AtlasCloudera Docs
Known Issues in Apache Atlas
Learn about the known issues in Apache Atlas, the impact or changes to the
    functionality, and the workaround.


CDPD-: 53176: Partition Specification data for Iceberg Table is
          not sent to Atlas in Hook context.
When a Iceberg table is created with partition spec,
          partition specification data is not sent to Atlas in Hook context. The partition
          specification data is stored differently for Hive than for Spark and Impala.For
            example, for Spark and Impala, the partition data is present in Table
            parameters.default-partition-spec but for Hive partition data is stored in Partition
            Transform Information and not Table parameters.default-partition-spec. In case of Hive,
            Atlas is not getting Partition Transform Information or Table
            parameters.default-partition-spec from Hook context.




CDPD-: 56594: Lineage (spark_process) is not created for views
          created on Iceberg tables.
A non-Iceberg table creates lineage connecting the source
          table and view.




CDPD-: 59413: Plugin is not supported with older Atlas server
          versions for Iceberg tables.

Copy the model file 1130-iceberg_table_model.json to the
            directory: /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/atlas/models/1000-Hadoop.
Proceed to restart the Atlas Service using Cloudera Manager.





CDPD-: 56590: Create table "like" from Iceberg table creates a
          hive_table instead of iceberg_table.
By default, for tables created using the "like" command,
          lineage is not generated in Atlas. The destination like table should be of the same type
          as source table. Instead an iceberg_table for source and hive_table for destination are
          getting created.




CDPD-: 56587: Lineage (spark_process) is not created for INSERT
          OVERWRITE / INSERT INTO SELECT Iceberg tables.
Querying on non-Iceberg tables using spark.sql
          creates a lineage (spark_process) connecting the source and the insert overwrite
          table. The same queries on an Iceberg tables using spark.sql does not
          create any lineage (spark_process).




CDPD-48122: Operations like admin/audits, admin/purge fail with a
          500 internal server error message "[__AtlasAuditEntry.startTime] is not indexed in the
          targeted index [vertex_index]"
 None 




DOCS-17056: Atlas Rolling Upgrade related to Zero Downtime Upgrade
          (ZDU).
Upgrade process comprises of upgrading Cloudera Manager + Runtime
          upgrade + Operating System upgrade. Though Atlas cannot comply with a full ZDU process,
          there is no data loss observed through the entire upgrade process. Post upgrade, all the
          created entities before and during the upgrade process are available without any changes
          or modifications.

Some limitations that are observed during the ZDU process:

While Atlas goes through the process of rolling upgrade, some downtime might be
              expected because Atlas does not support Active-Active model. Failover consumes
              sometime since Active-Passive is the currently supported model. As the Passive
              instance becomes Active, there is some downtime where Atlas is not reachable and the
              messages from clients are queued up in Kafka.
Solr does not support Rolling Upgrade due to which Atlas REST requests fail during
              the Solr upgrade.
Nodes unavailable due to OS Upgrade: Due to nodes going down and services not being
              accessible. (Not limited to Atlas but to also other available services).






CDPD-54964: ICEBERG External Table via impala-shell appears as
          hive_table, instead of iceberg_table.
Instead of appearing as iceberg_table, the entity appears as
          hive_table. Althought the table parameters has ICEBERG data.


CDPD-55301: The ddlQueries and ALTERTABLE_* lineage are missing
          for Spark tables created using spark3-shell.
The ddlQueries and outputFromProcesses (lineage) is missing
          for the alter queries.


CDPD-54990: The in-place migration of Hive table to Iceberg table
          with ALTER TABLE storage_handler using Beeline creates new iceberg_table entity but
          retains the old hive_table entity as is 
Running the query results with Atlas having two entities
          with same name but different types. One with hive_table and another with
            iceberg_table.


CDPD-40346: The ddlQueries and ALTERTABLE_ADDCOLS lineage missing
          for Impala tables.
The ALTERTABLE_ADDCOLS lineage has some
          issue when an Impala table is altered and the corresponding lineage is not created.


CDPD-55671: When one Atlas server host is not reachable (stopped),
          the GET request does multiple failover for approximately 4 minutes and takes around 2
          minutes for every failover and finally the request fails.
 None 


CDPD-55122: Any user with ssh access can view the downloaded
          results.
 None 


CDPD-57549: Rolling upgrade / ZDU: Atlas throws 503 when Zookeeper
          goes through upgrade
 When Zookeeper goes through Rolling upgrade, Atlas REST calls
          throws 503 error. Entities created using Atlas Kafka hook are created in Atlas and no data
          loss is expected. 


CDPD-46606: Performing Hive queries renders a notification for
          update data in the Hive table.
 None 


CDPD-24089: Atlas creates HDFS path entities for GCP path and the qualified name of those entities does not have a cluster name appended.
 None 


CDPD-22082: ADLS Gen2 metadata extraction: If the queue is not cleared before performing Incremental extraction, messages are lost.
After successfully running Bulk extraction, you must clear the queue before running Incremental extraction.


CDPD-19996: Atlas AWS S3 metadata extractor fails when High Availability is configured for IDBroker.
If you have HA configured for IDBroker, make sure your cluster has only one IDBroker address in core-site.xml. If your cluster has two IDBroker addresses in core-site.xml, remove one of them, and the extractor must be able to retrieve the token from IDBroker.


CDPD-19798: Atlas /v2/search/basic API does not retrieve results
          when the search text mentioned in the entity filter criteria (like searching by Database
          or table name) has special characters like + - & | ! ( ) { } [ ] ^ " ~ * ? :
You can invoke the API and mention the
          search string (with special characters) in the query attribute in the search
          parameters.


ATLAS-3921: Currently there is no migration path from AWS S3 version 1 to AWS S3 version 2.
 None 


CDPD-12668: Navigator Spark lineage can fail to render in Atlas
As part of content conversion from Navigator to Atlas, the
          conversion of some spark applications created a cyclic lineage
          reference in Atlas, which the Atlas UI fails to render. The cases
          occur when a Spark application uses data from a table and updates the
          same table. 
None


CDPD-11941: Table creation events missed when multiple tables are
          created in the same Hive command
When multiple Hive tables are created in the same database in a
          single command, the Atlas audit log for the database may not capture
          all the table creation events. When there is a delay between creation
          commands, audits are created as expected. 
None


CDPD-11940: Database audit record misses table delete
When a hive_table entity is created, the Atlas audit list for the
          parent database includes an update audit. However, at this time, the
          database does not show an audit when the table is deleted. 
None


CDPD-11790: Simultaneous events on the Kafka topic queue can produce
          duplicate Atlas entities
In normal operation, Atlas receives metadata to create entities from
          multiple services on the same or separate Kafka topics. In some
          instances, such as for Spark jobs, metadata to create a table entity
          in Atlas is triggered from two separate messages: one for the Spark
          operation and a second for the table metadata from HMS. If the process
          metadata arrives before the table metadata, Atlas creates a temporary
          entity for any tables that are not already in Atlas and reconciles the
          temporary entity with the HMS metadata when the table metadata
          arrives.
However, in some cases such as when Spark SQL queries with the
            write.saveAsTable function, Atlas does not
          reconcile the temporary and final table metadata, resulting in two
          entities with the same qualified name and no lineage linking the table
          to the process entity. 
This issue is not seen for other lineage queries from spark:
          create table default.xx3 as select * from default.xx2
insert into yy2 select * from yy
insert overwrite table ww2 select * from ww1
Another case where this behavior may occur is when many REST API
          requests are sent at the same time.
None


CDPD-11692: Navigator table creation time not converted to
          Atlas
In converting content from Navigator to Atlas, the create time for
          Hive tables is not moved to Atlas. 
None


CDPD-11338: Cluster names with upper case letters may appear in
          lower case in some process names
Atlas records the cluster name as lower case in
            qualifiedNames for some process names. The result
          is that the cluster name may appear in lower case for some processes
          (insert overwrite table) while it appears in upper case for other
          queries (ctas) performed on the same cluster. 
None


CDPD-10576: Deleted Business Metadata attributes appear in Search
          Suggestions
Atlas search suggestions continue to show Business Metadata
          attributes even if the attributes have been deleted. 
None


CDPD-10574: Suggestion order doesn't match search weights
At this time, the order of search suggestions does not honor the
          search weight for attributes.
None


CDPD-9095: Duplicate audits for renaming Hive tables
Renaming a Hive table results in duplicate ENTITY_UPDATE events in
          the corresponding Atlas entity audits, both for the table and for its
          columns. 
None


CDPD-7982: HBase bridge stops at HBase table with deleted column
          family
Bridge importing metadata from HBase fails when it encounters an
          HBase table for which a column family was previously dropped. The
          error indicates:
          Metadata service API org.apache.atlas.AtlasClientV2$API_V2@58112bc4 failed with status 404 (Not Found) Response Body 
({""errorCode"":""ATLAS-404-00-007"",""errorMessage"":""Invalid instance creation/updation parameters passed : 
hbase_column_family.table: mandatory attribute value missing in type hbase_column_family""}) 
None


CDPD-7781: TLS certificates not validated on Firefox
Atlas is not checking for valid TLS certificates when the UI is
          opened in FireFox browsers. 
None


CDPD-6675: Irregular qualifiedName format for Azure storage
The qualifiedName for hdfs_path entities created
          from Azure blog locations (ABFS) doesn't have the clusterName appended
          to it as do hdfs_path entities in other location
          types. 
None


CDPD-5933 and CDPD-5931: Unexpected Search Results When Using Regular
          Expressions in Basic Searches on Classifications
When you include a regular expression or wildcard in the search
          criteria for a classification in the Basic Search, the results may
          differ unexpectedly from when full classification names are included.
          For example, the Exclude sub-classifications
          option is respected when using a full classification name as the
          search criteria; when using part of the classification name and the
          wildcard (*) with Exclude sub-classifications
          turned off, entities marked with sub-classifications are not included
          in the results. Other instances of unexpected results include
          case-sensitivity.
None


CDPD-4762: Spark metadata order may affect lineage
Atlas may record unexpected lineage relationships when metadata
          collection from the Spark Atlas Connector occurs out of sequence from
          metadata collection from HMS. For example, if an ALTER TABLE operation
          in Spark changing a table name and is reported to Atlas before HMS has
          processed the change, Atlas may not show the correct lineage
          relationships to the altered table. 
None


CDPD-4545: Searches for Qualified Names with "@" doesn't fetch the
          correct results
When searching Atlas qualifiedName values that include an "at"
          character (@), Atlas does not return the expected results or generate
          appropriate search suggestions.
 Consider leaving out the portion of the search
          string that includes the @ sign, using the wildcard character *
          instead.


CDPD-3208: Table alias values are not found in search
When table names are changed, Atlas keeps the old name of the table
          in a list of aliases. These values are not included in the search
          index in this release, so after a table name is changed, searching on
          the old table name will not return the entity for the table.
None


CDPD-3160: Hive lineage missing for INSERT OVERWRITE queries
Lineage is not generated for Hive INSERT OVERWRITE queries on
          partitioned tables. Lineage is generated as expected for CTAS queries
          from partitioned tables.
None


CDPD-3125: Logging out of Atlas does not manage the external
          authentication
At this time, Atlas does not communicate a log-out event with the
          external authentication management, Apache Knox. When you log out of
          Atlas, you can still open the instance of Atlas from the same web
          browser without re-authentication.
 To prevent access to Atlas after logging out,
          close all browser windows and exit the browser.


CDPD-1892: Ranking of top results in free-text search not
          intuitive
The Free-text search feature ranks results based on which attributes
          match the search criteria. The attribute ranking is evolving and
          therefore the choice of top results may not be intuitive in this
          release.
If you don't find what you need in the top 5
          results, use the full results or refine the search.


 CDPD-1884: Free text search in Atlas is case sensitive
The free text search bar in the top of the screen allows you to
          search across entity types and through all text attributes for all
          entities. The search shows the top 5 results that match the search
          terms at any place in the text (*term* logic). It also shows
          suggestions that match the search terms that begin with the term
          (term* logic). However, in this release, the search results are
          case-sensitive.
If you don't see the results you expect, repeat
          the search changing the case of the search terms.


CDPD-1823: Queries with ? wildcard return unexpected results
DSL queries in Advanced Search return incorrect results when the
          query text includes a question mark (?) wildcard character. This
          problem occurs in environments where trusted proxy for Knox is
          enabled, which is always the case for CDP.
None


CDPD-1664: Guest users are redirected incorrectly
Authenticated users logging in to Atlas are redirected to the CDP
          Knox-based login page. However, if a guest user (without Atlas
          privileges) attempts to log in to Atlas, the user is redirected
          instead to the Atlas login page. 
To avoid this problem, open the Atlas Dashboard
          in a private or incognito browser window.


CDPD-922: IsUnique relationship attribute not honored
The Atlas model includes the ability to ensure that an attribute can
          be set to a specific value in only one relationship entity across the
          cluster metadata. For example, if you wanted to add metadata tags to
          relationships that you wanted to make sure were unique in the system,
          you could design the relationship attribute with the property
          "IsUnique" equal true. However, in this release, the IsUnique
          attribute is not enforced.
None


CDPD-24058: The Atlas-Kafka hook creates a new entity instead of
          linking them

When the import-kafka.sh tool is used and later the plugin is enabled
            in Kafka configurations, new incomplete topic entities is created. The tool is not
            linking the existing topics with the clients.

None


CDPD-29663: Error while connecting topic with schema in Atlas

The error occurred when Schema Registry tried to make a relationship in Atlas between a
            schema and a non-existent corresponding topic.




Parent topic: Known Issues In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17