What's New in Apache HBaseCloudera Docs
What's New in Apache HBase
Learn about the new features of HBase in Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17.
The initial corePoolSize in HBase is configurable for ChoreService
The hbase.choreservice.initial.pool.size configuration property
                is added to HBase to set the initial number of threads for the ChoreService. The
                default value is 1.
The related Apache HBase JIRA: HBASE-27565.

Disable sorting the directories by size in HBase CleanerChore service
The hbase.cleaner.directory.sorting configuration property is
                added to HBase so that the CleanerChore service can be disabled and sort the sub
                directories by the consumed space, and start the cleaning with the largest sub
                directory. The property is enabled by default.
The related Apache HBase JIRA: HBASE-27506.

Port FileWatcher from Zookeeper to detect keystore or truststore changes in TLS
                connections automatically
HBase detects the changes in the filesystem to refresh the keystore or truststore
                automatically during runtime. Now you do not need to restart the HBase instances
                manually when certificates are refreshed.
The related Apache HBase JIRA: HBASE-27347.

Automatically detect the keystore or trustore file types using file
                extension
HBase detects the keystore or truststore file types using the file extension if it is
                not explicitly specified in the configuration. If the file type cannot be detected,
                JKS is used by default.
The related Apache HBase JIRA: HBASE-27346.

Add mutual authentication support to TLS
By default, when TLS is enabled, mutual authentication of certificates is enabled.
                This means, during handshake, the client authenticates the server's certificate (as
                usual) and also the server authenticates the client's certificate. Additionally,
                each side validates that the hostname presented by the certificate matches the
                address of the connection.

hbase.server.netty.tls.client.auth.mode: Default value is
                    NEED. Possible values are, NEED, WANT, NONE.
hbase.server.netty.tls.verify.client.hostname: Default
                    value is true.
hbase.client.netty.tls.verify.server.hostname: Default
                    value is true.

Additionally, during hostname verification, if required a fallback on reverse lookup
                is supported. The reverse lookup can be disabled using
                    hbase.rpc.tls.host-verification.reverse-dns.enabled
                property. The default value is true.
The related Apache HBase JIRA: HBASE-27280.


Parent topic: What's New In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17