Deprecation Notices In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17Cloudera Docs
Deprecation Notices In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17
Certain features and functionalities have been removed or deprecated in Cloudera Runtime
    7.2.17. You must review these items to understand whether you must modify your existing
    configuration. You can also learn about the features that will be removed or deprecated in the
    future release to plan for the required changes.
Terminology
Items in this section are designated as follows:


Deprecated

Technology that Cloudera is removing in a future CDP release. Marking an item as
              deprecated gives you time to plan for removal in a future CDP release.



Moving

Technology that Cloudera is moving from a future CDP release and is making available
              through an alternative Cloudera offering or subscription. Marking an item as moving
              gives you time to plan for removal in a future CDP release and plan for the
              alternative Cloudera offering or subscription for the technology.



Removed

Technology that Cloudera has removed from CDP and is no longer available or supported
              as of this release. Take note of technology marked as removed since it can potentially
              affect your upgrade plans.



Removed Components and Product Capabilities
No components are deprecated or removed in this Cloudera Runtime
              release.Please contact Cloudera Support or your Cloudera Account Team if
              you have any questions.




Deprecation Notices for Apache KafkaCertain features and functionality in Apache Kafka are deprecated or removed in     Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17. You must review these changes along with the information about the     features in Kafka that will be removed or deprecated in a future release. Deprecation Notices for Spark 2Spark 2 will be deprecated in Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17. You’ll need to migrate your     Spark 2 applications to Spark 3.3.2. You must ensure that your jobs are Spark 3.3.2 compliant as     Spark 2 will be deprecated in a future release. Please contact Cloudera Support or your Cloudera     Account Team if you have any questions