What's New in Apache ImpalaCloudera Docs
What's New in Apache Impala
Learn about the new features of Impala in Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17.
View query timeline in Impala WebUI
For a detailed report on how a query was executed and to understand the detailed query
        performance characteristics, use the built-in web server’s UI and look at the Gantt chart.

Ability to create a non-unique primary key for Kudu 
Impala now supports creating a Kudu table with a non-unique primary key.
        When creating a Kudu table, specifying PRIMARY KEY is optional now. If there is no primary
        key attribute specified, the partition key columns could be promoted as non-unique primary
        keys if those columns are the beginning columns of the table.

Improvement in Ozone file handle caching
In this release, Ozone file handle caching is enabled by default.
        This file handle caching improves TPC-DS geomean query time by 10%.

Support Read from Ozone data with erasure coding
Impala now supports reading from Ozone data stored with Erasure Coding
        (EC). The Ozone EC feature provides data durability and fault tolerance with reduced storage
        space and ensures data durability similar to the Ratis THREE replication approach. EC can be
        considered as an alternative to replication.

Spill to HDFS
Impala occasionally needs to use persistent storage for writing intermediate files during
        large sorts, joins, aggregations, or analytical function operations. If your workload
        results in large volumes of intermediate writted data, it is recommended to configure the
        heavy spilling queries to use a remote storage location rather than the local one. The
        advantage of using remote storage for scratch space is that it is
        elastic and can handle large amounts of spilling.

New bytes-read-encrypted metric
When Impala executes any query on an Ozone encrypted file, the query PROFILE
        captures the runtime details of the execution, including the total number of encrypted bytes read from Ozone by the query.

Spill to Ozone
You can now use Ozone as a scratch space for writing intermediate
        files during large sorts, joins, aggregations, or analytic function operations.

New metrics for EC reads
The Query Details page contains the low-level details of
        how a SQL query is processed through Impala. You can now use the Query details page to view
        the erasure-coded bytes read metrics.

Ability to configure impala-shell client retry attempts
From this release, you can configure the maximum number of attempts
        impala-shell can make using an impala-shell option.

Ability to CREATE/ALTER VIEW SET/UNSET TBLPROPERTIES
Before this release, altering only the VIEW definition, VIEW name, and owner was supported.
        Impala now supports altering the table properties of a VIEW by using the
        set tblproperties clause.

Flags related to use_local_catalog 
When use_local_catalog is enabled or set to True on the
        impalad coordinators a new list of flags configures various parameters as
        described here. It is not recommended to change the default values on these flags.

Synchronization between Impala clusters
When a LOAD statement is run from Impala in a cluster, an INSERT event is generated. This INSERT event
        generated notifies other Impala clusters or any other systems that consume HMS events (e.g.
        Hive Replication) about the changes of LOAD DATA. The other Impala clusters will refresh the
        table or partitions based on the event.

Support for all complex types in a SELECT * query
A SELECT * statement did not expand to complex types to be compatible with earlier versions
        of Impala that did not support complex types in the result set. In the older versions of
        Impala, queries using SELECT * skip complex types by default and only expanded to primitive
        types even when the table contained complex-typed columns. This release adds a new query
        option EXPAND_COMPLEX_TYPES to include complex types in the SELECT * list.

Allow map type in the SELECT list
You can now use a SELECT statement to run queries on the keys
        and values of maps. However, you cannot have mixed complex types in the select list such as
        collections (arrays or maps) in structs or structs in collections. Also, sorting is not
        supported if the select list contains collection columns.

Push down date literals to Kudu scanner
Impala now allows creating and pushing down Kudu predicates
        from the DATE type.
Example:

      select * from functional_kudu.date_tbl where date_col = DATE "1970-01-01";
      
      PLAN-ROOT SINK
      |
      00:SCAN KUDU [functional_kudu.date_tbl]
      kudu predicates: date_col = DATE '1970-01-01'
      row-size=12B cardinality=1
      ---- DISTRIBUTEDPLAN
      PLAN-ROOT SINK
      |
      01:EXCHANGE [UNPARTITIONED]
      |
      00:SCAN KUDU [functional_kudu.date_tbl]
      kudu predicates: date_col = DATE '1970-01-01'
      row-size=12B cardinality=1
      
    

UTF-8 mode support
Some Impala STRING types now support UTF-8 aware behavior to ensure consistent
        results for non-ASCII characters in the string in both Hive and Impala.

Binary support
Impala now supports BINARY columns for all table formats except Kudu. See the BINARY support topic for more information on
        using this arbitrary-length byte array data type in CREATE TABLE and SELECT statements.

Increased data_cache_write_concurrency default for SSDs
To avoid overwhelming the underlying IO device, the data cache limits concurrent writes to
        the cache. This is controlled by the data_cache_write_concurrency flag and it defaults to 1.
        If the underlying IO device is identified to be an SSD, the default value of this flag will
        be increased to allow more concurrent writes to the data cache. This would allow the data
        cache to warm up faster and stay more up-to-date. When the default value is used, the
        rotational disks continue to use a default of 1, while non-rotational disks use a default of
        8.

Support custom hash schema for Kudu range tables
Impala now includes CREATE TABLE and ALTER TABLE syntax to allow
        Kudu custom hash schema. HASH syntax within a partition is similar to the table-level syntax
        except that HASH clauses must follow the PARTITION clause and commas are not allowed within
        a partition. You can use the SHOW HASH SCHEMA statement to view the hash schema information
        for each partition.
Example:

      CREATE TABLE t1 (id int, c2 int, PRIMARY KEY(id, c2))
      PARTITION BY HASH(id) PARTITIONS 3 HASH(c2) PARTITIONS 4
      RANGE (c2)
      (
      PARTITION 0 <= VALUES < 10
      PARTITION 10 <= VALUES < 20
      HASH(id) PARTITIONS 2 HASH(c2) PARTITIONS 3
      PARTITION 20 <= VALUES < 30
      )
      STORED AS KUDU;
      ALTER TABLE t1 ADD RANGE PARTITION 30 <= VALUES < 40
      HASH(id) PARTITIONS 3 HASH(c2) PARTITIONS 4;
      
    


Parent topic: What's New In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17