Fixed Issues in Apache KuduCloudera DocsFixed Issues in Apache Kudu
Review the list of Apache Kudu issues that are resolved in Cloudera Runtime
    7.2.17.


CDPD-47036: Upgrade elasticsearch (a transitive dependency through
          Ranger) to 7.17.1+ due to CVEs
Upgraded elasticsearch to 7.17.1+ due to CVEs.


CDPD-47068: Update default value for --tablet_history_max_age_sec
          to avoid OOM for kudu-master
Fixed an issue with the kudu-master process consuming too much
          memory in case of very large clusters, clusters with many thousands of tables, or clusters
          with huge numbers of DDL operations per day.
The default setting of --tablet_history_max_age_sec for tablet
          servers has been set to 7 days since logical backup/restore has been implemented with
          CDH6.3.0 release (corresponding to upstream Kudu release 1.10.0), but storing that much
          history for system catalog doesn't make much sense as Kudu masters don't scan the system
          tablet with timestamps back in the past. For bigger Kudu clusters with many nodes and
          thousands of tables, if there is a sustainable high rate of DDL activity or Raft election
          storms in the cluster, the system tablet might accumulate a lot of deltas of its history.
          That might lead to kudu-master processes using a lot of memory while performing rowset
          merge compactions.


CDPD-53423: Kudu was not able to connect to Ranger in public cloud due to an incorrect
          environment variable name
Kudu control script was using the wrong environment variable to fill Ranger service
          name. This caused the ranger subprocess to crash. As a result, all the Kudu CLI commands
          failed due to absence of ranger subprocess on the other end to cater CLI requests. As a
          fix, the correct environment variable is used to ensure a valid ranger service name is
          picked when Kudu cluster is set up.


KUDU-3450: Buffer was too low for messages between Kudu and the Ranger client, causing
          authorization failures when the access control lists were too large
The issue is now fixed.


Kudu HMS Sync is disabled and is not yet supported
The issue is now fixed.


Kerberos authentication fails with rdns disabled
When rdns is set to false, the Kudu Java client does not retain the original hostname,
          and replaces them with the resolved IP addresses. This prevents Kerberos authentication
          from working properly. For more information, see KUDU-3415.
The issue is now fixed.


Apache Patch Information
KUDU-3406

Parent topic: Fixed Issues In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17