Known Issues in Schema RegistryCloudera Docs
Known Issues in Schema Registry
Learn about the known issues in Schema Registry, the impact or changes to the
  functionality, and the workaround. 


CDPD-56890: New schemas cannot be created following an upgrade
If you delete the latest version of a schema (the one with the highest
    ID) from the Schema Registry database before an upgrade, you might not be able to create new
    schemas after you upgrade the cluster to a newer version.importantIn CDP Public Cloud, this issue only manifests when upgrading from Cloudera
     Runtime 7.2.12 or lower to 7.2.14 or higher.


Access the Schema Registry database. Go to Cloudera Manager > Schema Registry > Configuration and search for "database" if you don't know the name, host, or port of the
      Schema Registry database.
Cross reference the ID's in the schemaVersionId column of the
      schmema_version_state table with the ID's found in the
      schema_version_info table.
Delete all records from the schema_version_state table that contains a
      schemaVersionId not present in the schema_version_info
      table.




CDPD-58265: Schema Registry Client incorrectly applies SSL
     configuration
The Cloudera distributed Schema Registry Java client might fail to
     apply the SSL configurations correctly with concurrent access in Jersey clients due to a Jersey issue related to JDK.
Before using HttpsURLConnection in any form
     concurrently, call
      javax.net.ssl.HttpsURLConnection.getDefaultSSLSocketFactory() once in the
     custom client application.


CDPD-55381: Schema Registry issues authentication cookie for the
     authorized user, not for the authenticated one
When the authenticated user is different from the authorized user,
     which can happen when Schema Registry is used behind Knox, authorization issues can occur for
     subsequent requests as the authentication cookie in Schema Registry stores the authorized
     user.
Access Schema Registry directly, without using Knox, if
     possible. If not, ensure that the name of the end user that tries to connect does not begin
     with knox.



Parent topic: Known Issues In Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17