CDE example jobs and sample dataCloudera Docs
CDE example jobs and sample data
Cloudera Data Engineering provides a suite of example jobs that operate on example
        data to showcase its core capabilities and make the onboarding easier. The example jobs are
        a combination of Spark and Airflow jobs, which include scenarios such as reading and writing
        from object storage, running an Airflow DAG, and expanding on Python capabilities with
        custom virtual environments. Once loaded, these jobs can be run on demand or scheduled. The
        sample data will be loaded into the environment's default Data Lake location.

In Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), jobs are associated with virtual
                clusters. Before you can create a job, you must create a virtual cluster
                that can run it. For more information, see Creating virtual clusters.


You must run the example jobs with a user who is not the Local
                Administrator, that is, the user must to have been granted DEUser or DEAdmin
                privileges in the environment associated with your DE workspace. Also ensure you
                have enough resources to run these example jobs. Below is the description of the
                different example jobs:Table 1. Example Jobs

Job
Description



example-load-data
Loads the sample data onto the environment data lake. This
                                    job runs only once and is then deleted.note This will need to be run manually
                                        first if the sample jobs are loaded in any user defined
                                        virtual clusters. If the example-load-data
                                                job fails, contact Cloudera Support to
                                            recreate the example-load-data
                                            job.


example-virtual-env
Demonstrates CDE job configuration that utilizes Python
                                    Environment resource type to expand pyspark features via custom
                                    virtual env. This example adds pandas support. noteYou cannot run this job in an
                                        air-gapped environment.


example-resources
Demonstrates CDE job configuration utilizing file-based
                                    resource type. Resources are mounted on Spark driver and
                                    executor pods. This example uses an input file as a data source
                                    for a word-count Spark app. The driver
                                        stderr log contains the word
                                    count.


example-resources-schedules
Demonstrates scheduling functionality for Spark job in CDE.
                                    This example schedules a job to run at 5:04am UTC each
                                    day.


example-spark-pi
Demonstrates how to define a CDE job. It runs a SparkPi using
                                    a scala example jar located on a s3 bucket. The driver
                                        stderr log contains the value of
                                        pi.noteYou
                                        cannot run this job in an air-gapped
                                    environment.


example-cdeoperator
Demonstrates job orchestration using Airflow. This example
                                    uses a custom CDE Operator to run two Spark jobs in sequence,
                                    mimicking a pipeline composed of data ingestion and data
                                    processing. noteYou cannot run this job
                                        in an air-gapped environment.


example-object-store
Demonstrates how to access and write data to object store on
                                    different form factors: S3, ADLS, and HDFS. This example reads
                                    data already staged to object store and makes changes and then
                                    saves back the transformed data to object store. The output of
                                    the query ran on the object store table can be viewed in the
                                    driver stderr log.




In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP)  console, click the
                    Data Engineering tile. The CDE
                    Home page displays.

Click Jobs  on the left  navigation menu.

Select Load Example Jobs from the two options that
                    appear.
noteYou will see this window only if you have no existing
                        jobs in the virtual cluster.

If you have existing jobs in the virtual cluster, click  on the jobs page to
                        Load Example Jobs.


A dialog box appears explaining the example jobs and sample data. Click
                        Confirm to load example jobs and sample data.


Example jobs will be loaded in the virtual cluster and
            sample data will be loaded in the environment’s Data Lake location.

