Scheduling jobs in Cloudera Data EngineeringCloudera Docs
Scheduling jobs in Cloudera Data Engineering
Jobs in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) can be run on demand, or
    scheduled to run on an ongoing basis. The following instructions demonstrate
    how to create or modify a schedule for an existing job.



In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the
            Data Engineering tile. The CDE Home page
          displays.

Click Jobs on the left navigation menu. The
            Jobs page displays.

Click  in the Actions column next to the job, and then click
            Add Schedule.

In the  Schedule tab, click Create a
            Schedule.

Set the Start time, End time, and
            Cron expression.
The start and end times designate the time frame for which the schedule is active. The
            Cron expression uses the cron scheduling syntax
          to specify when the application should run within the start and end times. For information
          and examples of the cron syntax, see the Cron
          entry on Wikipedia.

noteTimestamps must be specified in ISO-8601 UTC format
          ('yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ'). UTC offsets are not supported.
noteScheduled job runs start at the end of the
        first full schedule interval after the start date, at the end of the scheduled period. For
        example, if you schedule a job with a daily interval with a
          start_date of 14:00, the first scheduled run is triggered at the end of
        the next day, after 23:59:59. However if the start_date is set to 00:00, it
        is triggered at the end of the same day, after 23:59:59.


Select optional scheduling configurations:


Select Enable Catchup to kick off job runs for any data
              interval that has not been run since the last data interval. If this option is not
              selected, only the runs that start after the time that the job was created will be
              included.


Select Depends on Previous to ensure that each job run is
              preceeded by a successful job run.



Click Schedule.


