Editing a policy to access Iceberg filesCloudera Docs
Editing a policy to access Iceberg files
You learn how to edit the existing default Hadoop SQL Storage Handler policy to
        access files on the object store. This policy is one of the two Ranger policies required to
        use Iceberg.
The Hadoop SQL Storage Handler policy allows references to Iceberg table storage
            location, which is required for creating or altering a table. You use a storage handler
            when you create a file stored as Iceberg on the file system or object store.
                In this task, you specify Iceberg as the storage-type and allow the broadest
                access by setting the URL to *. The Hadoop SQL Storage Handler policy
                supports only the RW Storage permission. A user having the required RW Storage
                permission on a resource, such as Iceberg, that you specify in the storage-type
                properties, is allowed only to reference the table location (for create/alter
                operations) in Iceberg. The RW Storage permission does not provide access to any
                table data. You need to create the Hadoop SQL policy described in the next topic in
                addition to this Hadoop SQL Storage Handler policy to access data in tables.
                For more information about these policy settings, see Ranger Storage Handler
            documentation.

Log into Ranger Admin Web UI.
The Ranger Service Manager appears:



In Policy Name, enable the all - storage-type,
                        storage-url policy.






In Service Manager, in Hadoop SQL, select Edit  and edit the
                        all storage-type, storage-url policy.

Below Policy Label, select storage-type, and enter
                    iceberg.

In Storage URL, enter the value *, enable Include. 





For more information about these policy settings, see Ranger storage handler
                    documentation.

In Allow Conditions, specify roles, users, or groups to whom you want to grant
                    RW storage permissions.
You can specify PUBLIC  to grant access to Iceberg tables
                    permissions to all users. Alternatively, you can grant access to one user. For
                    example, add the systest user to the list of users who can access Iceberg: 





For more information about granting permissions, see Configure a resource-based policy:
                        Hadoop-SQL.
Add the RW Storage permission to the policy.

Save your changes.


Parent topic: Accessing Iceberg tables