What is Expedited SupportCloudera Docs
What is Expedited Support
Expedited Support grants read-only access to your workload diagnostic information for
  the purpose of delivering a direct and expedited troubleshooting experience.  Access to only the
  diagnostic data that is sent to Cloudera Observability from Telemetry Publisher is enabled. The
  Cloudera Support engineers can not access your workload clusters or any data that is within them. 
The Cloudera Observability Expedited Support feature, provides the Cloudera Support team
   member, who is assisting you with a support case, read-only troubleshooting access to the same
   details and information that was sent by Telemetry Publisher to Cloudera Observability.
By default, the Expedited Support feature is enabled. When a support
   case is received, the Support team member assigned to your case, securely logs in to the Cloudera Observability web UI to view your environment's diagnostic data collected by Telemetry
   Publisher. Cloudera Observability provides essential and historical troubleshooting features and
   health details about your environment, data services, and workloads, which enables Cloudera
   Support to solve your issue without requiring you to collect and send more information, such as
   diagnostic bundles, logs, and traces. 
This results in a direct support response, faster resolution, and minimal downtime.noteCloudera highly recommends retaining enablement for the Expedited Support
    feature as this can significantly reduce resolution time for any future support tickets. Access
    to only diagnostic data that is sent to Cloudera Observability is enabled. The Cloudera Support
    team members are unable to access your workload clusters or any data within them.

Disabling Expedited SupportDescribes how to disable the Cloudera Support temporary read-only access to your         environment's workload diagnostic information that is collected by Telemetry Publisher for             Cloudera Observability.Reenabling Expedited SupportDescribes how to grant Cloudera Support temporary read-only access to your         environment's workload diagnostic information that is collected by Telemetry Publisher for             Cloudera Observability.