Enabling the redaction of sensitive dataCloudera Docs
Enabling the redaction of sensitive data
Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer collect diagnostic data from logs, job
        configurations, and SQL queries, and then send this data to Cloudera Observability. As this
        diagnostic information may contain sensitive information it is important to mask this data
        before it is sent to Cloudera Observability. 

Describes how to redact your sensitive data in the Cloudera Management Console.
By default, the Cloudera Management Console provides the following default
                anonymization rules that mask the following using regular expression patterns and
                replacement strings:
email addresses
credit card numbers
Social Security numbers

importantCloudera recommends enabling redaction even
                if you are not sending diagnostic data to Telemetry Publisher or Databus
                Producer.


Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Data Platform. 

From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing page, select
                    the Management Console tile.

From the Navigation panel, select Global Settings and
                    then the Telemetry tab.

Verify that the Workload Analytics and the
                        Deployment Cluster Logs Collection options are
                    enabled. 

In the Anonymization rules section, click New rule and
                    add your regex pattern and its replacement string.

Test your rule in the Test rules section, by doing the
                    following:


In the Input test text box, enter an example
                            string that contains sensitive content.
Click Test all rules.The Anonymized
                                    result text box is populated with your example and
                                its sensitive data is masked by the replacement string that you
                                defined in your anonymization rule.


Optional: 
Add more rules.

Click Save Changes.


Parent topic: Collecting Cloudera Observability diagnostic metrics for Public Cloud