Diagnostic metrics collection detailsCloudera Docs
Diagnostic metrics collection details
Describes the type of data provided by the Cloudera data services and collected by
    Telemetry Publisher and Databus WXM Client.
Telemetry Publisher and Databus WXM Client collect and send the following diagnostic metrics to
        Cloudera Observability:

MapReduce Jobs — Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer poll the
        YARN Job History Server for recently completed MapReduce jobs. For each of these jobs,
        Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer collects the configuration and
          jhist file, which is the job history file that contains job and task
        counters, from HDFS. Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer can be configured to collect
        MapReduce task logs from HDFS and send them to Cloudera Observability. By default, this log
        collection is turned off.
Spark Applications — Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer poll the
        Spark History Server for recently completed Spark applications. For each of these
        applications, Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer collect their event log from HDFS.
        You can configure Telemetry Publisher to collect the executor logs of Spark applications
        from HDFS and send them toCloudera Observability. By default, this data collection is turned
        off.
        
Oozie Workflows — Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer polls Oozie
        servers for recently completed Oozie workflows and sends the details to Cloudera Observability. 
Hive Queries — An agent periodically searches for query detail files
        that are generated by HiveServer2 after a query completes and then sends the details from
        those files to Telemetry Publisher or Databus Producer. importantHive query audits must be enabled.
Impala Queries — An agent periodically looks for query profiles of
        recently completed queries and sends them to Telemetry Publisher and Databus Producer.


Parent topic: Collecting Cloudera Observability diagnostic metrics for Public Cloud