Considerations related to telemetry tasks for your environment's deploymentCloudera Docs
Considerations related to telemetry tasks for your environment's deployment
Your environment's form-factor (CDP Public Cloud or CDP Private Cloud) and where your
    workload cluster is hosted determines how you enable telemetry for Cloudera Observability. This
    topic explains how you decide the telemetry tasks for your environment's form-factor and the
    steps required for telemetry enablement.
Determining what information to provide and which telemetry configuration steps to choose is
      dependent on your deployment architecture and where your workload cluster is hosted. 
The below diagram shows the communication between Cloudera Observability and your workload
      clusters in CDP Public Cloud and CDP Private Cloud through Cloudera Manager's Telemetry
      Publisher. The Cloudera Observability service, including its main component services, runs in
      the Cloudera Cloud Environment, and your workload jobs run in the Working Environment of your
      CDP cloud platform that contains the clusters and/or services required to run your workload
      processes:





CDP Public Cloud Form-factor 1 
If your workload cluster is hosted in CDP Public Cloud, you connect to the Cloudera Observability cloud service in the Cloudera cloud environment through Telemetry
        Publisher as follows:
If your workload cluster is hosted on one or multiple Data Hub clusters in CDP Public
            Cloud, you enable telemetry when you register your environment in the Cloudera
            Management Console by turning on the Enable Workload Analytics
              option.For more information on Enabling Telemetry for Cloudera
                Observability, click the
                Related
                Information link below.
If your workload cluster is hosted on one or multiple CDP clusters using Cloudera Data
            Engineering (CDE) and/or a Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) data service in CDP Public
            Cloud, do the following:
For CDW, do nothing. By default telemetry is enabled.
For CDE, you enable telemetry when you enable your CDE service by selecting the
                  Enable Workload Analytics check box. For more
                  information on
                    Enabling
                    a Cloudera Data Engineering service, click the
                    Related Information link below.



CDP Private Cloud Form-factor 2
If your workload cluster is hosted in your environment on a Cloudera Data Platform (CDP)
        Private Cloud Base cluster and you want to connect it to the Cloudera Observability cloud
        service in the Cloudera cloud environment, you configure the Telemetry Publisher service
        using the Databus endpoint EC2 service URL for your cloud region:
For a
              Us-west-2
            cloud region use:
            https://dbusapi.us-west-1.sigma.altus.cloudera.com
For a EU-central-1 cloud region use:
            https://dbusapi.eu-1.cdp.cloudera.com
For a AP-southeast-2 cloud region use:
            https://dbusapi.ap-1.cdp.cloudera.com

To enable telemetry for CDP Private Cloud the following tasks must be performed:

Ensure your firewall rules will allow communication to the endpoint. For more
          information on Configuring Your Firewall, click the Related
            Information link below.
Generate the Telemetry Publisher access credentials. For more information on
            Generating Telemetry Publisher Access Credentials, click the
            Related Information link below.
Enable the Telemetry Publisher service on each of your workload clusters using the
          Telemetry Publisher access credentials you generated in task 2. For more information on
            Configuring Telemetry Publisher, click the Related
            Information link below.

important

To display the most current diagnostic metrics and health statistics collected by
            Telemetry Publisher, you must upgrade to the latest version of Cloudera Manager and
            restart Telemetry Publisher.
For environments using Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) and Cloudera Data Warehouse
            (CDW), you must upgrade to CDE 1.19 and/or CDW 1.6.3 or above. Starting with these
            versions the collected diagnostic data is categorized and displayed within their Data
            Service category in the Environment navigation panel of the Cloudera Observability web
            UI. For environments using older CDE and CDW versions and/or where telemetry was
              collected from Data Hub environments before April 30th 2023, the diagnostic data is
              displayed within the Unclassified Jobs category in the
              Environment navigation panel of the Cloudera Observability web UI. 




Related informationConfiguring your firewallGenerating Telemetry Publisher access credentialsConfiguring Telemetry PublisherEnabling telemetry for a Data Hub deploymentEnabling a Cloudera Data Engineering service