Reenabling Expedited SupportCloudera Docs
Reenabling Expedited Support
Describes how to grant Cloudera Support temporary read-only access to your
        environment's workload diagnostic information that is collected by Telemetry Publisher for
            Cloudera Observability.

By default, the Expedited Support feature is enabled.  Learn
                how to re-enable read-only access to your workload diagnostic information by
                Cloudera Support when troubleshooting help is required after disabling.
Expedited Support grants read-only troubleshooting access to your Cloudera Support
                team. It provides access to the same details and information that was sent by
                Telemetry Publisher to Cloudera Observability. Expedited Support enables the
                Cloudera Support team member who is assisting you with a support case the ability to
                review any workload related issues without requiring you to collect and send the
                workload details with a support case. This results in a direct and accelerated
                troubleshooting experience.noteCloudera highly recommends
                    retaining enablement for the Expedited Support feature as this can significantly
                    reduce resolution time for any future support tickets. Access to only the
                    diagnostic data that is already sent to Cloudera Observability is enabled. The
                    Cloudera Support team members can not access your workload clusters or any data
                    within them.


These steps assume that you have been assigned the Cluster
                    Admin access role (ObservabilityClusterAdmin) by your administrator. 


Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Observability web UI.


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform
                            (CDP).
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.
The Cloudera Observability landing page opens.



From the Cloudera Observability
Environments page, locate the environment whose diagnostic
                    data requires troubleshooting help from Cloudera Support

tipYou can reduce the number of environments
                        by selecting your environment's type from the
                            Environments list.


From the environment's Actions list (ellipsis icon),
                    select Enable Expedited Support.

The Enable Expedited Support confirmation message opens.

Optional: 
In the Additional Note field, enter a comment that
                    uniquely describes why access is granted. For example, enter the Cloudera
                    Support ticket number with a brief description of the problem. 

Click Enable.

A Cloudera Observability Expedited Support Enabled notification email is sent
                        to the user who initiated the Expedited Support
                        action. The email confirms the access condition, lists the cluster affected
                        by the action, and provides a date and time for when the action was
                        initiated.



Parent topic: What is Expedited Support