Using the Cloudera Observability user interfaceCloudera Docs
Using the Cloudera Observability user interface
Describes a few frequently used interface elements of Cloudera Observability that help
    you identify and troubleshoot your workload issues.
The following examples describe a few interface elements of Cloudera Observability that
      enable you to quickly identify workload problems, health issues, resource contentions, and
      abnormal or degraded performance problems. 
These examples assume that you have logged in to the Cloudera Data Platform and accessed the
        Cloudera Observability web UI from the Your Enterprise Data Cloud
      landing page.
Identify workload problems and health issues
You can easily locate what engines are running on your clusters from the environment's
          Cluster Summary page and what jobs and queries are failing the
        health tests with the Suboptimal chart widget. 
The Suboptimal chart widget, displays the distribution of jobs and
        the jobs and queries that failed. This chart widget enables you to visually see at a glance
        what issues are currently impacting your jobs or queries and how they are executing on your
        cluster.
Location: The Suboptimal chart widget is
        found on the engine's Summary page, which, depending on the
        environment selected, is accessed by selecting the environment for analysis in the
          Environments page and then in the Environment navigation panel,
        drilling down through the environment's categories and selecting an engine of interest.



Identify and address resource contentions
Cloudera Observability provides the following chart widgets that help you analyze and
        identify resource consumption and contention problems:

 The Resource Consumption By Services chart widget displays
              the CPU and memory consumption for each service across the time range you selected.
              Hover your mouse over the timeline, to display the percentage of CPU or memory
              consumed by each of the cluster's services.
Location: The Resource Consumption By
                Services chart widget is found on the Cluster
                Summary page of a Classic Cluster, Private Cloud Base, and a Data Hub
                cluster.



The Resource Consumption By Nodes chart widget displays the CPU
            and memory consumption for each node in the cluster. Hover your mouse over the time
            line, to display the amount of CPU or memory, as a percentage, that is consumed by each
            node and its services.Location: The Resource
                Consumption By Nodes chart widget is found on the Cluster
                Summary page of a Classic Cluster, Private Cloud Base, and a Data Hub
                cluster.


The Memory Utilization chart widget, displays the aggregated
            maximum amount of memory that is used by the queries on any node performing the
            processing. It helps you identify inefficient queries that are consuming the most amount
            of memory and decide if you need to allocate more memory to continue running your query
                jobs.Location: The Memory
                Utilization chart widget is found on the Impala engine's
                Summary page, which, depending on the environment selected,
              is accessed by selecting the environment for analysis in the
                Environments page and then in the Environment navigation panel,
              drilling down through the environment's categories and selecting an engine of
              interest.
The Resource Consumption chart widget, displays the concurrent
            use of CPU and memory consumption for a workload across the timeline you selected.
                Location: The Resource Consumption
              chart widget is found on the Impala engine's Summary page.
              which, depending on the environment selected, is accessed by selecting the environment
              for analysis in the Environments page and then in the Environment
              navigation panel, drilling down through the environment's categories and selecting an
              engine of interest.




Identify and address abnormal or degraded performance problems
Cloudera Observability enables you to identify and address abnormal or degraded performance
        problems by establishing baselines from health issues that also enable a performance
        comparison of your workloads. The Cloudera Observability baseline metrics measure the
        current performance of a job against the average performance of previous runs. They use
        performance data from 30 of the most recent runs of a job and require a minimum of three
        runs. The baseline comparisons start with the fourth run of a job.
Location: The baseline for a job or a query is found on the Baseline
        page, which is accessed by selecting the environment, followed by the cluster and then the
        engine for analysis, then depending on the engine, clicking the Total
          Jobs or Total Queries in the Job
          Trend chart widget, selecting the job or query of interest, and then selecting
        the Baseline tab. noteCloudera Observability
          requires at least four job runs in order to create the job or query's baseline.

The following images show a few of the baseline and comparison metrics that are
          provided:
This image shows the comparison between the baseline performance metrics and the
            current job run:


To display only those metrics with performance issues, select Show only
              abnormal metrics:




Identify performance trends
You can identify trends as well as baselines by analyzing your engine’s or cluster’s
        performance trends from the Trends chart widget and the
          Trend tab. Where:
The engine's job or query Trends time-series chart widget,
            displays more detailed metrics about the processed jobs and queries and enables you to
            view historical trends for analysis when you select a predefined or custom time period
            from the Time-Range filter list.
                Location: This chart widget is found on the
                Cluster Summary and the engine Summary
              pages, which are accessed by selecting the environment and then the cluster for
              analysis or by selecting the environment, followed by the cluster, and then the engine
              for analysis. 
The Trends tab, displays the job or query's instances executed
            during the selected time period. Depending on the engine, the Trends page displays a
            job's historical trend from Duration, Data Input, and Data Output histogram charts or
            lists the runs of the query to show how its performance changes
                overtime.Location: The Trends tab
              is found on the Jobs or Query's page, which is accessed by selecting the environment,
              followed by the cluster and then the engine for analysis, then depending on the
              engine, clicking the Total Jobs or Total
                Queries in the Job Trend chart widget, selecting
              the job or query of interest, and then selecting the Trends
              tab.



Parent topic: About the Cloudera Observability user interface hierarchy