Diagnostic metrics collection detailsCloudera Docs
Diagnostic metrics collection details
Describes the type of data provided by the Cloudera data services and collected by
    Telemetry Publisher. 
Telemetry Publisher collects and sends the following diagnostic metrics to Cloudera Observability:

MapReduce Jobs — Telemetry Publisher polls the YARN Job History Server
        for recently completed MapReduce jobs. For each of these jobs, Telemetry Publisher collects
        the configuration and jhist file, which is the job history file that
        contains job and task counters, from HDFS. Telemetry Publisher can be configured to collect
        MapReduce task logs from HDFS and send them to Cloudera Observability. By default, this log
        collection is turned off.
Spark Applications — Telemetry Publisher polls the Spark History
        Server for recently completed Spark applications. For each of these applications, Telemetry
        Publisher collects the event log from HDFS. You can configure Telemetry Publisher to collect
        the executor logs of Spark applications from HDFS and send them to Cloudera Observability.
        By default, this data collection is turned off. important
For CDH 5.x clusters, Telemetry Publisher requires the CDS 2.2 Powered by Apache Spark
            release 2 or later, which is packaged with Apache Spark version 1.6.

Oozie Workflows — Telemetry Publisher polls Oozie servers for recently
        completed Oozie workflows and sends the details to Cloudera Observability. 
Hive Queries — The Cloudera Manager agent periodically searches for
        query detail files that are generated by HiveServer2 after a query completes, and then sends
        the details from those files to Telemetry Publisher. importantHive query audits must be enabled.
Impala Queries — A Cloudera Manager agent periodically looks for query
    profiles of recently completed queries and sends them to Telemetry Publisher.


Parent topic: Collecting Cloudera Observability diagnostic metrics for Private Cloud