What is Cloudera Observability and how is it usefulCloudera Docs
What
  is Cloudera Observability and how is it useful
Cloudera Observability is a Cloudera service that helps you interactively understand
  your environment, data services, workloads, clusters, and resources. Its wide range of metrics and
  health tests help you identify and troubleshoot existing and potential problems. This service also
  provides prescriptive guidance and recommendations that help you quickly address those problems
  and optimize solutions. When a workload completes, diagnostic information about the job or query
  and the cluster that processed them is collected by Telemetry Publisher, a role in the Cloudera
  Manager Management Service, and sent to Cloudera Observability.
Cloudera Observability enables you to interactively understand your environment, data services,
   workloads, clusters, and resources, and optimize your systems through:
A wide range of metrics and health tests that help you identify and troubleshoot both
     existing and potential issues.
Prescriptive guidance and recommendations that help you quickly address those problems and
     optimize solutions.
Performance baselines and historical analysis that help you identify and address performance
     problems.

In addition, Cloudera Observability also enables you to:
Visually display your workload cluster’s current and historical costs that help you plan and
     forecast budgets, future workload environments, and justify current user groups and
     resources.
Trigger actions in real-time across jobs and queries that help you take steps to alleviate
     potential problems. 
Enable the daily delivery of your cluster statistics to your email address that help you to
     track, compare, and monitor without having to log in to the cluster.
Break down your workload metrics into more meaningful views for your business requirements
     that help you analyze specific workload criteria. For example, you can analyze how queries that
     access a particular database or that use a specific resource pool are performing against your
     SLAs. Or you can examine how all the queries are performing on your cluster that are sent by a
     specific user.
     


