Testing your Azure Function AppCloudera Docs
Testing your Azure Function App
Once you have built and verified your dataflow and uploaded it to the Cloudera DataFlow
    Catalog, you can create your Azure Function App.

After deploying the function, you should test if all settings have been properly
        configured.


Click the Functions blade of your Function App.


Select the Function you want to test.


Click the Code + Test blade on the left, and the
              Test/Run button at the top.
This brings up a side panel to input sample data and have the data flow run. If there
            are problems, you can inspect the log messages to understand the issue. If the logs do
            not provide enough details, you may need to adjust the log levels to gain more debugging
            information, and view the complete Log Stream. For more information, see Monitoring
              and logs.


noteAt this time, the Azure Console cannot submit valid requests in
        the "Code + Test" view specifically for Event Grid trigger functions.
As a workaround, you can test your Function without generating an actual Event
        Grid event as follows:


Click the Get function URL button at the top of the
              Code + Test view, and click the Copy
            button next to the URL.


Create a file, for example, named event-grid.json with the
            contents of the Event Grid schema JSON you want to test.


Paste the URL in the place of the URL in the following curl command:
curl https://<app-function-name>.azurewebsites.net/runtime/webhooks/EventGrid?functionName=StatelessNiFiEventGridTriggerFunction&code=<code> \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/json'\
     -H 'aeg-event-type: Notification'
     --data-binary @event-grid.json



For more details on submitting this request, see Azure Event Grid trigger for Azure Functions.
The amount of time the cloud function takes to run depends heavily on the data
        flow and how many extensions it needs. Because the Cloud function may have to download some
        extensions from Nexus and perform initialization, a cold start may take many seconds. Even
        20-30 seconds is not uncommon for a data flow with several extensions, while other data
        flows may complete in 10 seconds. After you run the function successfully using the
          Test button, it may be helpful to run several additional iterations
        in order to understand how the function will perform when a cold start is not necessary.
        Again, this depends heavily upon the configured data flow and other services that it may
        interact with. A simple data flow may complete in as little as 5 milliseconds for HTTP
        triggers or 100 milliseconds for Event Grid triggers, while a data flow that must perform
        complex transformations and reach out to one or more web services or databases for
        enrichment may take several seconds to complete.
It is important to adjust the function's timeout configuration if the cold start
        takes longer than the amount of time allocated.


Related informationMonitoring and logs