Disk storage considerationsCloudera Docs
Disk storage considerations
Azure Function Apps have two basic options for local storage used for downloading and
    expanding NARs.



Temporary storage, under C:\local\Temp - for Consumption
            plans, the total local disk size is limited to 500 MB, including this Temp directory,
            making the actual limit somewhat less than 500 MB. This limit can be increased
            significantly with App Service and Functions Premium plans (for example, the Basic plan
            starts at 11 GB). This storage is attached directly to the Function App container, and
            is therefore much faster than the File Share option, discussed next. This storage also
            requires no additional configuration, but caution must be taken not to fill up the disk.
            Mitigations for this are discussed below.


File Share storage, which is mapped to C:\home. When setting
            up the initial function, you already attached a File share from your Storage account, so
            this should already be available to you. The File share has a default limit of 5 TB, but
            is not locally attached to your Function App container, and so can be significantly
            slower than writing to the Temp directory.


Although Temporary storage is faster, DataFlow Functions has a storage
        optimization that reuses downloaded and unpacked extension NARs. Therefore, the recommended
        approach is to use the File share for both the WORKING_DIR and
          EXTENSIONS_DOWNLOAD_DIR. This will incur a significant time penalty on
        the very first cold start, but afterwards the downloading and unpacking of NARs can be
        skipped, greatly reducing the function execution time.
noteBecause of the initial execution time cost, when using the File
        share for either directory, it is recommended that you perform a single "warming" invocation
        of your function in order to download and unpack all extension NARs for later reuse.
You can use the File share for storage by doing the following:


Navigate to your Storage account and click the File
              shares blade on the left. Select your file share name on the right.


Click the data directory (or create it if it does not yet exist).


Click the + Add directory button, name it
              extensions, and click OK. Repeat this for a directory called
            working.


In your Function App, click the Configuration blade on
            the left, and add (or set) an Application Setting named
              EXTENSIONS_DOWNLOAD_DIR with a value of
              C:\home\data\extensions.


In your Function App, click the Configuration blade on
            the left, and add (or set) an Application Setting named WORKING_DIR
            with a value of C:\home\data\working.


Save the configuration.


Optionally (but recommended), perform a single "warming" invocation of your
            Function App.




