Configuring KerberosCloudera Docs
Configuring Kerberos
Depending on the dataflow that is used, you may need to enable Kerberos authentication
    in order to interact with some service(s).
To enable Kerberos, you must provide an
      appropriate krb5.conf file. This file tells the DataFlow Function, among
      other things, where the Key Distribution Center (KDC) is located and the Kerberos Realm to
        use.Depending on the data flow that is used, you may need to enable Kerberos
        authentication in order to interact with some service(s). To enable Kerberos, you must
        provide an appropriate krb5.conf file. This file tells the DataFlow
        Function, among other things, where the Key Distribution Center (KDC) is located and the
        Kerberos Realm to use.To specify this, the krb5.conf
        must be made available to DataFlow Function. You can do this by using an Azure Storage
        Container. See the corresponding section to learn more about this.Additionally, you must tell DataFlow Function where it can find this
          krb5.conf file. To do this, add an environment variable to your
        Lambda function. The environment variable must have the name KRB5_FILE and the value must be
        the fully qualified filename of the krb5.conf file. For example, it
        might use /home/resources/krb5.conf.In order to use
        Keytabs in your data flow, it will also be important to provide the necessary keytab files
        to the DataFlow Function. This is accomplished in the same manner, using a Lambda Layer or
        an S3 bucket. While the krb5.conf file is a system configuration, the
        keytab is not. The keytab will be configured in the data flow on a per-component basis. For
        example, one Processor may use keytab nifi-keytab-1 while some Controller
        Service makes use of keytab hive-keytab-4. The location of these files may
        change from deployment to deployment. For example, for an on-premises deployment, keytabs
        may be stored in /etc/security/keytabs while in DataFlow Function, they
        may be made available in /home/resources.So it is
        better to use Parameter Contexts in order to parameterize the location of the keytab files.
        This is a good practice for any file-based resource that will need to be made available to a
        deployment. In this case, because there is a parameter referencing the location, we need to
        provide DataFlow Function with a value for that parameter. For more information on this, see
          Parameters.

Related informationParameters