Migrating Spark CDP to Cloudera Data EngineeringCloudera Docs
Migrating Spark CDP to Cloudera Data Engineering
Cloudera Date Engineering Service (CDE) is designed as a fully managed service for
    Spark. Among many other features, CDE streamlines and provides better Spark jobs monitoring
    capabilities with an enhanced Job Analysis page, that builds upon the Spark UI and Apache
    Airflow for orchestrating Spark pipelines.
The CDE service currently supports Spark batch jobs only. Spark streaming is
      experimental and is not recommended for production. For information about guidelines and
      limitations, see Experimental support for Spark Streaming and Spark Structured
        Streaming.
CDE does not change Spark. It allows you to easily deploy managed Spark 2.4.0 or higher and
      Spark 3.0+ clusters in the cloud, so if you are already using Spark in your code, you can
      migrate the code to CDE as is.
The deployment mode changes from YARN to Kubernetes, but CDE automatically sets the required
      Kubernetes properties upon job creation, so you need not set them. However, you may have to
      convert some YARN related properties. Details of these YARN properties are discussed in the
        Convert Spark Submits to CDE CLI Spark Submits section. 

Related informationExperimental support for Spark Streaming and Spark Structured StreamingConvert Spark Submits to CDE CLI Spark SubmitsCloudera Data Engineering ConceptsCloudera Date Engineering Service (CDE) is designed as a fully managed service for     Spark. Among many other features, CDE streamlines and provides better Spark jobs monitoring     capabilities with an enhanced Job Analysis page, that builds upon the Spark UI and Apache     Airflow for orchestrating Spark pipelines.Convert Spark Submit commands to CDE CLI Spark Submit commandsThe CDE CLI cde spark submit command is intended to closely match     with Apache Spark's spark-submit command.Using the Cloudera Data Engineering CLIIf at any time you are having issues with the CDE CLI, you can view the CDE CLI options     by adding the --help flag to any CLI commands:Convert Spark Submits to CDE API RequestsYou can execute each of the commands mentioned in the previous section, from the     terminal, or in a third-party application such as GitLab or a Jupyter Notebook.Using Swagger PageThe CDE job options that you pass to the requests can get cumbersome. You can use the     Swagger page to construct and test your requests. Getting Started with CDE AirflowApache Airflow is a platform to author, schedule and execute Data Engineering     pipelines. It is widely used to create dynamic and robust workflows for batch Data Engineering     use cases because of its flexibility and ease of use. Using AirflowCDE packages the open source version of Airflow. Airflow is maintained and upgraded at     each CDE version update. For example, the version of CDE 1.16 includes Airflow 2.2.5. 