Manage individual delegation tokensCloudera Docs
 Manage individual delegation tokens
A list of example actions you can issue to manage individual delegation
    tokens.
The functionality that’s needed to manage and use delegation tokens is accessible using the
      AdminClient APIs or the kafka-delegation-tokens tool. All of their operations
      are allowed only via SASL authenticated channels.
Both the API and the script provide the following actions:note The examples presented show
        how these actions can be executed with the kafka-delegation-tokens tool.
        
Issue, and store for verification
The owner of the token is the currently authenticated principal. A renewer can be
            specified when requesting the token.
            kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port  --create   --max-life-time-period -1 --command-config client.properties --renewer-principal User:user1
Renew 
 Only the owner and the principals that are renewers of the delegation token can
            extend its validity by renewing it before it expires. A successful renewal extends the
            Delegation Token’s expiration time for another renew-interval, until it reaches its max
            lifetime. Expired delegation tokens cannot be used to authenticate, the brokers will
            remove expired delegation tokens from the broker’s cache and from
            Zookeeper.kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port --renew    --renew-time-period -1 --command-config client.properties --hmac lAYYSFmLs4bTjf+lTZ1LCHR/ZZFNA==
Remove 
Delegation tokens are removed when they are canceled by the client or when they
            expire.
            kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port --expire   --expiry-time-period -1   --command-config client.properties  --hmac lAYYSFmLs4bTjf+lTZ1LCHR/ZZFNA==
Describe 
Tokens can be described by owners, renewers or the Kafka super
              user.kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port --describe --command-config client.properties  --owner-principal User:user1noteIn
              Apache Kafka, principals that have the describe permission on the token resource can
              also describe the token.


Parent topic: Delegation token based authentication