Enable or disable authentication with delegation tokensCloudera Docs
Enable or disable authentication with delegation tokens
Learn how to enable or disable Kafka delegation tokens.

Delegation token based authentication requires that both the Enable Kerberos
            Authentication and Enable Delegation Tokens properties
            are set to true. The default value of the Enable Delegation Tokens
            property is true, but will have no effect until Kerberos is also enabled.
Although enabling delegation tokens enables authentication between clients and servers
        using the SASL/SCRAM mechanism, it is only as a vehicle for delegation tokens. Using SCRAM
        credentials is not supported otherwise. 
Sensitive delegation token metadata is stored in Zookeeper. It is recommended to restrict
        access on Zookeeper nodes to prevent access to sensitive delegation token related data
        through Zookeeper. The connection between Kafka and Zookeeper is not encrypted, therefore,
        it is also recommended to use delegation tokens only if no unauthorized person can read and
        manipulate the traffic between these services.
 Delegation tokens can be enabled separately for each Kafka service.


A secure Kafka cluster with Kerberos authentication enabled is required  for delegation
        tokens to function. 

In Cloudera Manager select the Kafka service.Select Configuration and find the Enable
            Delegation Tokens property.Enable or disable delegation tokens for all required services by checking or
            unchecking the checkbox next to the name of the service.Click Save Changes.Perform a Rolling Restart:
Return to the Home page by clicking the Cloudera Manager
            logo.
Go to the Kafka service and select
                  Actions > Rolling
                Restart.
Check the Restart roles with stale configurations
                only checkbox and click Rolling
            restart.
Click Close when the restart has
            finished.

Delegation tokens are enabled or disabled for the selected Kafka services. If
        delegation tokens were enabled, then the necessary secrets and settings are
        generated.

Related informationEnable Kerberos authentication for KafkaKafka security hardening with Zookeeper ACLsParent topic: Delegation token based authentication