Feb 24, 2022Cloudera Docs
Feb 24, 2022
This release of the Replication Manager service introduces the following new
        features.
Creating HDFS and HBase snapshot policies (Tech preview)
A snapshot is a set of metadata information, a point-in-time backup of HDFS
                files and HBase tables. You can create snapshot policies for HDFS directories and
                HBase tables in registered classic clusters and SDX Data Lake clusters to take
                snapshots at regular intervals. Before you create an HDFS snapshot policy for an
                HDFS directory, you must enable snapshots for the directory in Cloudera Manager. 
After a snapshot policy takes a snapshot of the HDFS directory or HBase
                table, you can perform the following tasks:

Restore the snapshot to the original directory or table using the
                        Restore Snapshot option. 
Restore a directory or table to a different directory or table using
                    the Restore Snapshot as option.

For more information about snapshot policies, see Snapshot policies in Replication
                Manager.
importantCreating an HDFS or HBase snapshot policy
                is a technical preview feature. Access to preview features is provided upon request
                to customers for trial and evaluation. The components are provided ‘as is’ without
                warranty or support. Further, Cloudera assumes no liability for the use of preview
                components, which should be used by customers at their own risk. Contact your
                Cloudera account team to have this preview feature enabled in your CDP
                account.

Override default storage location for replicated Hive external tables in the
                target cluster
Administrators can override the default storage location for replicated
                Hive external tables in the target cluster when they create a Hive replication
                policy.
Before you add another path to override the default storage location,
                ensure that the following steps are complete in the Ranger UI:


Alter the ranger policy Default: Hive warehouse
                            locations in cm_s3 service to allow the Hive service to
                        access the updated locations of S3 bucket path.


Manually update the Ranger and Sentry permissions.


For more information about editing the Hive External Table Base
                    Directory option in Hive replication policies, see Creating Hive replication policy.

Cannot suspend HBase replication policies
If you create an HBase replication policy, you can no longer suspend the policy.
                However, you can resume any existing suspended HBase replication policy.

Generate and download diagnostic bundles for replication policies
You can generate and download diagnostic bundles for HDFS and Hive replication
                policies. You can use the bundle to troubleshoot failed replication jobs or to view
                replication-specific diagnostic data for a replication policy. 
For more information about CDP CLI for HDFS and Hive replication policies, see Managing HDFS replication policies and Managing Hive replication policies.


Parent topic: Older releases