May 12, 2022Cloudera Docs
May 12, 2022
This release of the Replication Manager service introduces the following new
        features.
Migrating HDFS data from cloud storage to CDH clusters
After you register a CDH cluster as a classic cluster in Management
                Console, and register the cloud credentials (AWS S3 and Azure) in Replication
                Manager, you can migrate HDFS data from the cloud storage to the registered classic
                cluster (CDH cluster) using HDFS replication policies.
For more information about CDP CLI for HDFS and Hive replication policies, see Creating HDFS replication policy.

Tracking and monitoring the performance of HDFS and Hive replication
                policies
You can monitor and track the performance of the following replication policies:
HDFS replication policies - Download the CSV reports in the HDFS
                            Replication Report field on the Replication Policies > [***HDFS replication
                                policy***] > Job History panel. 
Hive replication policies - Download the CSV reports in the HDFS
                            Replication Report field and Hive Replication
                            Report field on the Replication Policies > [***Hive replication
                                policy***] > Job History panel. 

For more information, see Managing HDFS replication policy  and
                    Managing Hive replication policy.

Modifying HDFS and Hive replication policy options
After you create an HDFS replication policy or Hive replication policy, you can
                change the policy options as required to meet any changing requirements. Optionally,
                on the Replication Policies page, you can expand an HDFS or
                Hive replication policy to edit the policy description, frequency (start time cannot
                be modified if the policy has already started) to run the policy, YARN queue name to
                submit the replication job, maximum bandwidth for each map task, and maximum map
                slots or tasks per replication job. To optimize the replication policy performance,
                you can configure the queue name, maximum bandwidth, and maximum map slots as
                necessary.
For more information, see Managing HDFS replication policy  and
                    Managing Hive replication policy.

Restart HBase service when you use on-premises cluster as source cluster in HBase
                replication policy
After you create an HBase replication policy, you must restart the HBase service in
                the on-premises source cluster when the policy status on the Replication
                    Policies page shows Manual restart (src) / restarting
                    (dest) or Manual HBase restart needed on
                    source. After the service restart is complete, the setup continues
                automatically for the replication policy.
However, if the source cluster Cloudera Manager version is 7.6.0 or lower and you are
                using an on-premises cluster as the source cluster, you must perform the following
                steps to complete the HBase replication policy setup:
Restart the HBase service on the on-premises source cluster when the policy
                        status on the Replication Policies page shows
                            Waiting for ‘Continue Setup’ action call. 
Click Continue setup for the policy on the
                            Replication Policies page after the service restart
                        is complete. This action informs Replication Manager to continue the
                        replication policy setup.

For more information, see Managing HBase replication policy.


Parent topic: Older releases