May 16, 2022Cloudera Docs
May 16, 2022
This release of the Replication Manager service introduces the following new
        features.
Updates to HBase replication policy

If you are using Cloudera Manager version 7.6.0 or higher, you can use
                    the following options while creating an HBase replication policy:
Rolling HBase Service Restart on Source
                            - This option appears if you select COD or Data Hub as the source
                            cluster. Select this option to enable automatic rolling restart of HBase
                            service on the source cluster after the HBase replication policy
                            first-time setup steps are complete. Otherwise, Cloudera Manager
                            performs a full restart of the service.
Rolling HBase Service Restart on
                                Destination - Select this option to enable automatic
                            rolling restart of HBase service on the target cluster as a rolling
                            restart after the HBase replication policy first-time setup steps are
                            complete. Otherwise, Cloudera Manager performs a full restart of the
                            service.
Validate Policy - Select to notify
                            Replication Manager to verify the policy details after the policy
                            creation is complete.
For more information, see Creating HBase replication
                        policy.
A warning message appears when you choose a cluster that is part of an
                    existing cluster pairing. If there are HBase replication policies for the
                    existing pairing, policy creation is not allowed to continue. If there are no
                    policies, the existing pairing is removed and policy creation continues.For
                        more information, see Using HBase replication
                        policy.


Support for Replication Manager in ap-1 and eu-1 regional Control Planes
Replication Manager is now supported in the ap-1 (Australia) and eu-1 (Germany)
                regional Control Planes. For the list of all supported services in the supported
                Control Plane regions, see CDP Control Plane regions.


Parent topic: Older releases