Configuring LivyCloudera Docs
Configuring Livy

This section describes how to configure
      Livy in CDP. Livy is a proxy service for Apache Spark; it offers the
        following capabilities:

Zeppelin users can launch a Spark session on a cluster, submit
            code, and retrieve job results, all over a secure connection.



When Zeppelin runs with authentication enabled, Livy propagates
            user information when a session is created. Livy user impersonation
            offers an extended multi-tenant experience, allowing users to share
            RDDs and cluster resources. Multiple users can access their own
            private data and session, and collaborate on a notebook.

The following graphic shows process communication among Zeppelin,
        Livy, and Spark:The following
        sections describe several optional configuration steps.
Configure Livy user access control
You can use the livy.server.access-control.enabled property to
            configure Livy user access. 
When this property is set to false, only the session owner and the
            superuser can access (both view and modify) a given session. Users cannot access
            sessions that belong to other users. ACLs are disabled, and any user can send any
            request to Livy.
When this property is set to true, ACLs are enabled, and the following
            properties are used to control user access: 

livy.server.access-control.allowed-users – A comma-separated list
               of users who are allowed to access Livy. 
livy.server.access-control.view-users –  A comma-separated list of
               users with permission to view other users' infomation, such as submitted session
               state and statement results.
livy.server.access-control.modify-users – A comma-separated list of
               users with permission to modify the sessions of other users, such as  submitting
               statements and deleting the session. 


Restart the Livy interpreter after changing settings. 
If you change any Livy interpreter settings, restart the Livy interpreter. Navigate to
            the Interpreter configuration page in the Zeppelin Web UI. Locate the Livy interpreter,
            then click restart.

Verify that the Livy server is running
To verify that the Livy server is running, access the Livy web UI in a browser window.
            The default port is 8998:
http://<livy-hostname>:8998/

