



What's New In CDH 5.3.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation








































































































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New In CDH 5.3.x


Continue reading:

What's New in CDH 5.3.0
What's New in CDH 5.3.1
What's New in CDH 5.3.2
What's New in CDH 5.3.3
What's New in CDH 5.3.4
What's New in CDH 5.3.5
What's New in CDH 5.3.6
What's New in CDH 5.3.8
What's New in CDH 5.3.9
What's New in CDH 5.3.10




What's New in CDH 5.3.0


The following topics describe new features introduced in CDH 5.3.0.

Oracle JDK 8 Support
Apache Hadoop
Apache Flume
Apache HBase
Apache Hive
Hue
Apache Oozie
Apache Parquet
Cloudera Search
Apache Sentry (incubating)
Apache Spark
Apache Sqoop




Oracle JDK 8 Support

CDH 5.3 supports Oracle JDK 1.8. For important information and requirements, see CDH 5 and Cloudera
Manager 5 Requirements and Supported Versions and Upgrading to Oracle JDK 1.8.



Apache Hadoop

HDFS

CDH 5.3 provides the following new capabilities:

HDFS Data At Rest Encryption - This feature is now ready for use in production environments.
Important:
Client hosts may need a more recent version of libcrypto.so. See Apache Hadoop Known Issues for more
information.

Important: Cloudera provides two solutions:

Navigator Encrypt is production ready and available to Cloudera customers licensed for Cloudera Navigator. Navigator Encrypt operates at the Linux volume
level, so it can encrypt cluster data inside and outside HDFS. Consult your Cloudera account team for more information.
HDFS Encryption is production ready and operates at the HDFS directory level, enabling encryption to be applied only to HDFS folders where needed.



S3A - S3A is an HDFS implementation of the Simple Storage Service (S3) from Amazon Web Services. It is similar to S3N, which is the other implementation
of this functionality. The key difference is that S3A relies on the officially-supported AWS Java SDK for communicating with S3, while S3N uses a best-effort-supported jets3t library to do the same. For a listing of the parameters, see HADOOP-10400.





YARN

YARN now provides a way for long-running applications to get new delegation tokens.
See Configuring Spark on YARN for Long-Running
Applications or Configuring YARN Security.




Apache Flume

CDH 5.3 provides a Kafka Channel (FLUME-2500).



Apache HBase

CDH 5.3 provides checkAndMutate(RowMutations), in addition to existing support for atomic checkAndPut as well as
checkAndDelete operations on individual rows (HBASE-11796).



Apache Hive


Hive can use multiple HDFS encryption zones.
Hive-HBase integration contains many fixes and new features such as reading HBase snapshots.
Many Hive Parquet fixes.
Hive Server 2 can handle multiple LDAP domains for authentication.




Hue

New Features:

Hue is re-based on Hue 3.7
SAML authentication has been revamped.
CDH 5.3 simplifies the task of configuring Hue to store data in an Oracle database by bundling the Oracle Install Client.




Apache Oozie


You can now update the definition and properties of an already running Coordinator. See the documentation for more information.
A new poll command in the Oozie client polls a Workflow Job, Coordinator Job, Coordinator Action, or Bundle Job until it finishes. See the
documentation for more information.




Apache Parquet


PARQUET-132: Add type parameter to AvroParquetInputFormat for Spark
PARQUET-107: Add option to disable summary metadata files
PARQUET-64: Add support for new type annotations (date, time, timestamp, etc.)




Cloudera Search

New Features:

Cloudera Search includes a version of Kite 0.15.0, which includes all morphlines-related backports of all fixes and features in Kite 0.17.1. Morphlines now includes functionality that
enables partially updating document as well as deleting documents. Partial updating or deleting can be completed by unique IDs or by documents that match a query. For additional information on Kite,
see:

Kite repository
Kite Release Notes
Kite documentation
Kite examples


CrunchIndexerTool now sends a commit to Solr on job success.
Added support for deleting documents stored in Solr by unique id as well as by query.




Apache Sentry (incubating)


Sentry HDFS Plugin - Allows you to configure synchronization of Sentry privileges to HDFS ACLs for specific HDFS directories. This simplifies the process of sharing table data between
Hive or Impala and other clients (such as MapReduce, Pig, Spark), by automatically updating the ACLs when a GRANT or REVOKE statement is
executed. It also allows all roles and privileges to be managed in a central location (by Sentry).
Metrics - CDH 5.3 supports metrics for the Sentry service. These metrics can be reported either through JMX or the console; configure this by setting the property sentry.service.reporter to jmx or console. A Sentry web server listening by default on port 51000 can expose the
metrics in json format. Web reporting is disabled by default; enable it by setting sentry.service.web.enable to true. You can configure the port on which Sentry web server listens by means of the sentry.service.web.port property .




Apache Spark


CDH Spark has been rebased on Apache Spark 1.2.0.
Spark Streaming can now save incoming data to a WAL (write-ahead log) on HDFS, preventing any data loss on driver failure.
Important:
This feature is currently in Beta; Cloudera includes it in CDH Spark but does not support it.


The YARN back end now supports dynamic allocation of executors. See Job Scheduling
for more information.
Native library paths (set via Spark configuration options) are correctly propagated to executors in YARN mode (SPARK-1719).
The Snappy codec should now work out-of-the-box on Linux distributions with older glibc versions such as CentOS 5.
Spark SQL now includes the Spark Thrift Server in CDH.
Important:
Spark SQL remains an experimental and unsupported feature in CDH.



See Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations and Apache Spark Known Issues for
additional important information.



Apache Sqoop


Sqoop 1:

The MySQL connector now fetches on a row-by row-basis.
The SQL server now has upsert (insert or update) support (SQOOP-1403).
The Oracle direct connector now works with index-organized tables (SQOOP-1632). To use this
capability, you must set the chunk method to PARTITION:
-Doraoop.chunk.method=PARTITION


Sqoop 2:

FROM/TO re-factoring is now supported (SQOOP-1367).







What's New in CDH 5.3.1

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues; for details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.1.



What's New in CDH 5.3.2

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues; for details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.2.



What's New in CDH 5.3.3

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues; for details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.3.



What's New in CDH 5.3.4

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues; for details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.4.



What's New in CDH 5.3.5

This is a maintenance release that fixes the following issue. For details of other fixes, see Issues Fixed in CDH
5.3.5:


Potential job failures during YARN rolling upgrades to CDH 5.3.4

Problem: A MapReduce security fix introduced a compatibility issue that results in job failures during YARN rolling upgrades from CDH 5.3.3 to CDH
5.3.4.
Cloudera Bug: CDH-28680
Release affected: CDH 5.3.4
Release containing the fix: CDH 5.3.5
Workarounds: You can use any one of the following workarounds for this issue:

Upgrade to CDH 5.3.5.
Restart any jobs that might have failed during the upgrade.
Explicitly set the version of MapReduce to be used so it is picked on a per-job basis.

Update the YARN property, MR Application Classpath (mapreduce.application.classpath), either in Cloudera Manager
or in the mapred-site.xml file. Remove all existing values and add a new entry: <parcel-path>/lib/hadoop-mapreduce/*, where
<parcel-path> is the absolute path to the parcel installation. For example, the default installation path for the CDH 5.3.3 parcel would be: /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH-5.3.3-1.cdh5.3.3.p0.5/lib/hadoop-mapreduce/*.
Wait until jobs submitted with the above client configuration change have run to completion.
Upgrade to CDH 5.3.4.
Update the MR Application Classpath (mapreduce.application.classpath) property to point to the new CDH 5.3.4
parcel.
Do not delete the old parcel until after all jobs submitted prior to the upgrade have finished running.









What's New in CDH 5.3.6

This is a maintenance release that fixes several issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.6.



What's New in CDH 5.3.8

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues; for details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.8.



What's New in CDH 5.3.9

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues; for details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.9.



What's New in CDH 5.3.10

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues; for details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.10.



Categories: Amazon | CDH | Flume | Getting Started | HBase | HDFS | Hadoop | Hive | Hue | JDK | New Features | Oozie | Oracle | Parquet | Release Notes | S3 | Search | Sentry | Spark | Sqoop | Upgrading | What's New | YARN | All Categories



What's New In CDH 5.4.x


What's New In CDH 5.2.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












