



Apache Oozie Known Issues | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation













































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesKnown Issues in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Apache Oozie Known Issues

Apache Oozie Server Vulnerability CVE-2017-15712

A vulnerability in the Oozie Server allows a cluster user to read private files owned by the user running the Oozie Server process.
Products affected: Oozie
Releases affected: All releases prior to CDH 5.12.0, CDH 5.12.0, CDH 5.12.1, CDH 5.12.2, CDH 5.13.0, CDH 5.13.1, CDH 5.14.0
Users affected: Users running the Oozie Server
Date/time of detection: November 13, 2017
Detected by: Daryn Sharp and Jason Lowe of Oath (formerly Yahoo! Inc)
Severity: (Low/Medium/High) High
Impact: The vulnerability allows a cluster user to read private files owned by the user running the Oozie Server process. The malicious user can construct a
workflow XML file containing XML directives and configuration that reference sensitive files on the Oozie server host.
CVE: CVE-2017-15712
Immediate action required: Upgrade to release where the issue is fixed.
Addressed in release/refresh/patch: CDH 5.13.2 and higher, CDH 5.14.2 and higher, 5.15.0 and higher



Oozie does not consider timezone parameter when scheduling using cron-like syntax

Oozie workflows can be scheduled using coordinators. Coordinators can have start time, end time, and frequency parameters. All those have an effect on when and how often coordinator
actions (occurrences) of the same coordinator job (definition) will schedule to run.
There are three
ways to choose the frequency parameter:

Use a constant value (meaning number of minutes) like: frequency=”60”. Note that because the number of minutes per day will vary in a daylight saving
time zone, only values less than 1440 (minutes in a non-daylight-adjusting day) might be useful.
Put an EL expression like: frequency=”${coord:days(1)}”. This will repeat the workflow once every day, based on the start time.
Use a Cron
expression like: frequency="10 9 * * *". This will schedule the coordinator application every day 9:10am.


If you create a scheduled job using either a constant value or an Expression Language expression while using the timezone parameter to supply a timezone with daylight saving time, Oozie
schedules the coordinator actions considering daylight saving changes.
This is not the case when you use a Cron expression while using the timezone parameter to supply DST aware timezone. In this case, Oozie schedules the coordinator actions in a way that
does not consider the timezone parameter. Only oozie.processing.timezone configuration value is considered configured as part of oozie-site.xml, and only for calculating the offset to GMT.
oozie-site.xml affects the overall behavior for each coordinator job.
Affected Versions: CDH5.14.0 and lower.
Fixed in Versions: CDH5.16.1 and higher, CDH6.0.0 and higher
Bug: OOZIE-2494
Cloudera Bug: CDH-40279
Workaround: The workaround is use case specific. See the following Knowledge Base article and consider the listed caveats: Oozie Coordinators Timezone and DST change handling
caveats.



After enabling HA, Oozie may fail to start due to "NoSuchFieldError: EXTERNAL_PROPERTY

This issue happens in rare cases. Due to an incompatibility with the version of Jackson used by Oozie and Hive, and depending on the order that jars are
loaded into Oozie's classpath, Oozie may fail to start.
Affected Versions: CDH5.9.3 and below.
Fixed in Versions: CDH 5.10.0 and higher.
Bug: HIVE-1640
Cloudera Bug: CDH-42408
Workaround: If using parcels:

Delete or move /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/oozie/libserver/hive-exec.jar and /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/oozie/libtools/hive-exec.jar.
Download hive-exec-<cdh version>-core.jar from the Cloudera repo and put it in /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/oozie/libserver/ and /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/oozie/libtools/.
Download kryo-2.22.jar from the maven repo and put it in /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/oozie/libserver/ and /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/oozie/libtools/.

Note: If using packages, use /usr/lib/oozie instead of /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/oozie/ in the above paths.




Oozie Web Console returns 500 error when Oozie server runs on JDK 8u75 or higher

The Oozie Web Console returns a 500 error when the Oozie server is running on JDK 8u75 and higher. The Oozie server still functions, and you can use the Oozie command line, REST API,
Java API, or the Hue Oozie Dashboard to review status of those jobs.
Affected Versions: CDH5.x and higher, except for the releases listed below.
Fixed in Versions: CDH 5.5.5, 5.7.2, 5.8.2, 5.9.0 and above.
Bug: OOZIE-2533
Cloudera Bug: CDH-40362
Workaround: Use an earlier version of Java 8 or use the Hue Oozie Dashboard.



Oozie jobs fail (gracefully) on secure YARN clusters when JobHistory server is down

If the JobHistory server is down on a YARN (MRv2) cluster, Oozie attempts to submit a job, by default, three times. If the job fails, Oozie automatically puts the workflow in a
SUSPEND state.
Affected Versions: CDH 5 Beta 1 and higher.
Cloudera Bug: CDH-14623
Workaround: When the JobHistory server is running again, use the resume command to tell Oozie to continue the workflow
from the point at which it left off.



Oozie does not start when oozie.email.smtp.auth is disabled

If you enable SLA integration, and oozie.email.smtp.auth is disabled, Oozie throws a NullPointerException and fails to start.
Affected Versions: C5.5.1 and lower.
Bug: OOZIE-2365
Cloudera Bug: CDH-35331
Workaround: In Cloudera Manager, configure Oozie Server Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for oozie-site.xml
as follows:
<property>
  <name>oozie.email.smtp.password</name> 
  <value>none</value> 
</property> 
<property> 
  <name>oozie.email.smtp.username</name> 
  <value>none</value> 
</property>



Oozie works with MapReduce or YARN, but not both

The Oozie server works with a MapReduce (MRv1) cluster or a YARN (MRv2) cluster, but not both at the same time.
Workaround: Use two different Oozie servers.



Categories: Known Issues | Oozie | Release Notes | Troubleshooting | Upgrading | All Categories



Apache Mahout Known Issues


Apache Parquet Known Issues


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












