



What's New In CDH 5.8.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation









































































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New In CDH 5.8.x


Continue reading:

What's New in CDH 5.8.5
What's New in CDH 5.8.4
What's New in CDH 5.8.3
What's New in CDH 5.8.2
What's New in CDH 5.8.0
Key Trustee Server




What's New in CDH 5.8.5

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.5.



What's New in CDH 5.8.4

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.4.



What's New in CDH 5.8.3

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.3.



What's New in CDH 5.8.2



Support for HDFS Disk Balancer. For details, see http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r3.0.0-alpha1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/HDFSDiskbalancer.html.





What's New in CDH 5.8.0


The following sections describe new features introduced in CDH 5.8.0.

Operating System Support
Apache HBase
Hue
Apache Impala
Apache Oozie
Cloudera Search
Apache Sentry




Operating System Support


Operating Systems - Support for Debian 8.2.




Apache HBase


Additional metrics have been added to monitor garbage collection pauses and other external pauses that might cause a server process to momentarily block any request processing.
New throughput and Bloom filter metrics have been added to the existing HBase microbenchmarks.
Downstream users of CDH who build on top of Apache HBase can now pull in fewer transitive dependencies by relying on shaded client artifacts. To do so, use the maven artifact
hbase-shaded-client where you would normally use the hbase-client artifact. All HBase APIs remain the same.
Note: In a previous release of CDH, this maven artifact exists but does not contain any of the needed classes to interact with an HBase
cluster.

The HMaster Web UI now shows the aggregate of all space being used by snapshots.




Hue

General Features:

Rebase of Hue on upstream Hue 3.10.
Refactor of Hue Infrastructure:

Performance is further optimized for large numbers of databases and tables.
Exporting and importing documents is improved.




SQL Editor and Browser:

Revamp of the Hue SQL Application:

Editor is redesigned to create a single-page experience.
Code editor is redesigned with enhanced auto-complete, keyboard shorts, search and replace, and more.
A live status of the query history displays as an icon ().




Admin and Security:

HUE-3386: Users are auto-logged out when TTL Expires. See Securing Sessions.
Hue-3808: Users can do live DEBUG log toggling.
A new step in the Cloudera Manager Add Service wizard helps configure and test an external Hue database.


Search:

SENTRY-1217: Users can grant Sentry Solr privileges.


Oozie:

Hue-3464: The dashboard and editor are decoupled for granular
access.
Saved Hive queries can be dragged and dropped into a workflow.





Apache Impala

See New Features in Impala 2.6.x / CDH 5.8.x.



Apache Oozie



OOZIE-2330 : The Spark Action now allows <file> and <archive> elements. It also
omits <job-tracker> and <name-node> elements to allow for the use of the global or default values.
The launcher job no longer uses YARN's uber mode by default.





Cloudera Search


Cloudera Search adds support for storing permissions in the Sentry service. You can enable storing permissions in the Sentry service by Enabling the Sentry Service for Solr. If you have already configured Sentry's policy file-based approach, you can migrate existing
authorization settings as described in Migrating from Sentry Policy Files to the Sentry Service. solrctl has been extended to support:

Migrating existing policy files to the Sentry service
Managing managing permissions in the Sentry service






Apache Sentry


Sentry supports data stored on Amazon S3 and can secure URIs with an S3 schema.
Cloudera Search adds support for storing permissions in the Sentry service. You can enable storing permissions in the Sentry service by Enabling the Sentry Service for Solr. If you have already configured Sentry's policy file-based approach, you can migrate existing
authorization settings as described in Migrating from Sentry Policy Files to the Sentry Service. solrctl has been extended to support:

Migrating existing policy files to the Sentry service
Managing managing permissions in the Sentry service


SENTRY-1175: Improved usability for Sentry URIs and URI privileges. If URIs in Hive DDL
statements or URI privileges lack scheme and authority components, Sentry automatically completes such URIs by applying the default scheme and authority based on the HDFS configuration provided to
Sentry.
Performance Improvements

SENTRY-1293: ResourceAuthorizationProvider.doHasAccess no longer performs expensive
operations to convert string permissions to Privilege objects.
SENTRY-1292: Reordered the DBModelAction EnumSet to improve authorization performance.







Key Trustee Server

Auto backup on install of Key Trustee Server

Key Trustee server backs up automatically on first run when using parcels and Cloudera Manager, and sets up a cron job (hourly) for continuous backup.



Auto backup on install of KMS

Key Trustee KMS backs up automatically on first run when using parcels and Cloudera Manager.




Categories: CDH | Fixed Issues | Getting Started | Hue | Key Trustee Server | Linux | New Features | Release Notes | Search | Sentry | Upgrading | What's New | All Categories



What's New In CDH 5.9.x


What's New In CDH 5.7.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












