



What's New in CDH 5.16.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation














































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New in CDH 5.16.x


See below for new features in CDH 5.16.x, grouped by component:

Apache Hive
Apache Impala
Apache Sentry
OpenJDK Support
Apache Kudu
Apache Phoenix




Apache Hive

The following new features have been added to Apache Hive in CDH 5.16.1:


Fine Grained Privileges

Sentry and Hive introduced fine grained privileges to provide object-level privileges to roles.
Fine grained privileges adds the CREATE privilege, which allow users to create databases and tables. See the Sentry Privileges documentation for more information about the new privileges.



Object Ownership

Object ownership designates an owner for a database, table, or view in Sentry. The owner of an object has the equivalent of the ALL privilege on the
object. See the Object Ownership documentation for information
about enabling object ownership.
Because of the new object ownership feature, HMS stores the user that creates a table or database in Hive as the object owner. If object ownership is enabled, Sentry grants the user the
OWNER privilege. Whether or not object ownership is enabled, HMS stores the user that creates the object as the object owner. Previously, HMS stored the hive user as the object owner.
The following statements were added to Hive to support object ownership via Sentry:



ALTER DATABASE SET OWNER
ALTER TABLE SET OWNER
SHOW GRANT USER






Apache Impala

The following new features have been added to Apache Impala in CDH 5.16.1:


Fine Grained Privileges

Sentry and Impala introduced fine grained privileges to provide object-level privileges to roles.
Fine grained privileges include the REFRESH and CREATE privileges, which allow users to create databases and tables, and to
execute commands that update metadata information on Impala databases and tables. See Impala Sentry documentation for the new
privileges and the scopes of the objects that you can grant the new privileges on.
The following new privileges were added:


The REFRESH privilege
The CREATE privilege
The SELECT and INSERT privileges on SERVER


If a role has SELECT or INSERT privilege on an object in Impala before upgrading to CDH 5.16.1, that role will automatically
get the REFRESH privilege during the upgrade.



Object Ownership

Object ownership designates an owner for a database, table, or view in Sentry. The owner of an object has the OWNER privilege which is the equivalent of
the ALL privilege on the object. See the Object Ownership documentation for information about enabling object ownership.
If the object ownership feature is enabled, Sentry grants the user the OWNER privilege. Whether or not object ownership is enabled, HMS stores the object
creator as the default object owner. Previously, HMS stored the Kerberos user as the object owner.
The following statements were added to Impala to support object ownership via Sentry:


ALTER DATABASE SET OWNER
ALTER TABLE SET OWNER
ALTER VIEW SET OWNER
SHOW GRANT USER





Admission Control Enhancement

A new query option, MAX_MEM_ESTIMATE_FOR_ADMISSION, was added. Use the new option
to set an upper limit on the memory estimates of a query as a workaround for over-estimates precluding a query from being admitted.



General Performance Improvements

A new query option, SHUFFLE_DISTINCT_EXPRS, controls the shuffling
behavior when a query has both grouping and distinct expressions.



Metadata Performance Improvements


Incremental Stats
The following enhancements improve Impala stability. The features reduce chances of having catalogd and impalad crash due to
be out of memory when using incremental stats.

Incremental stats are now compressed in memory in catalogd, reducing memory footprint in catalogd.
Incremental stats are fetched on demand from catalogd by impalad coordinators. This enhancement reduces memory footprint
for impalad coordinators and statestored and also reduces network requirements to broadcast metadata.

See Loading Incremental
Statistics from Catalogd for details.

Automatic Invalidation of Metadata
Note: This feature is experimental and not recommended for use in production clusters.
To keep the size of metadata bounded and to reduce the chances of catalogd cache running out of memory, this release introduces an automatic metadata
invalidation feature with time-based and memory-based invalidation.
Automatic invalidation of metadata provides more stability with lower chances of running out of memory, but could potentially cause performance risks. The feature is turned off by
default.
See Startup Options for
Automatic Invalidation of Metadata for details.





Compatibility and Usability Enhancements



Additional separators are supported between date and time in default TIMESTAMP format, specifically, the multi-space separator and the 'T' separator. See
TIMESTAMP Data Type for more information on TIMESTAMP format.


New hint placement is supported for INSERT statements. See Optimizer Hints in Impala for detail.


The REGEX_ESCAPE() function was implemented for escaping special characters to treat them literally in string literals.


SHOW CREATE VIEW was implemented with the same functionality as SHOW CREATE TABLE.

Impala Shell can connect directly to impalad when configured with proxy load balancer and Kerberos. See Configuration Options for the new flag that enables the direct connection.





Apache Sentry

The following new features have been added to Apache Sentry in CDH 5.16.1:


Fine Grained Privileges

The CREATE and REFRESH (Impala only) privileges have been introduced to allow users to create databases, tables and
functions, and to execute commands that update metadata information on Impala databases and tables.
For more information about the new privileges, see Sentry Privileges.



Object Ownership

Object ownership designates an owner for a database, table, or view in Sentry. The owner of an object has the equivalent of the ALL privilege on the
object.
In CDH 5.16.1, object ownership is disabled by default. For information about enabling and using object ownership, see Object Ownership.



No Group Name Case Restrictions

Sentry no longer normalizes group name characters to be lowercase. Therefore, operating system group names do not need to be treated as case insensitive. In previous versions, Sentry
modified capital letters in operating system group names to be lowercase.




OpenJDK Support

OpenJDK is now supported with Cloudera Manager and CDH 5.16.1.
For information about migrating your Oracle JDK to OpenJDK, see Upgrading the JDK. To use OpenJDK in a new deployment, see Install Java Development Kit.
Cloudera Bug: CDH-60334



Apache Kudu

The following new features have been added to Apache Hive in CDH 5.16.1:
Starting with Apache Kudu 1.5.0 / CDH 5.13.x, Kudu has been fully integrated into CDH. Kudu now ships as part of the CDH parcel and packages. For a complete list of new features and
changes introduced in Kudu 1.7 / CDH 5.16.1, see What's New in Apache Kudu.



Apache Phoenix

Apache Phoenix is available with CDH 5.16.2:
Starting with Apache Phoenix 4.14.1/ CDH 5.16.2, Phoenix parcel can be installed and used with CDH. You can now download and install the Phoenix parcel on CDH 5.16.2. For more
information about installing and using Phoenix, see the Phoenix Guide.



Categories: CDH | Getting Started | New Features | Release Notes | Upgrading | What's New | All Categories



New Features and Changes in CDH 5


What's New in CDH 5.15.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












