



What's New in CDH 5.1.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation









































































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New in CDH 5.1.x


The following sections describe what's new in CDH 5.1.x releases. You can also review Known Issues in CDH 5 and
Incompatible Changes and Limitations.

What's New in CDH 5.1.0
What's New in CDH 5.1.2
What's New in CDH 5.1.3
What's New in CDH 5.1.4
What's New in CDH 5.1.5




What's New in CDH 5.1.0


This is a minor release, which includes new features, changes, and fixed issues. See also Issues Fixed in CDH
5.1.0.

New Features and Changes in CDH 5.1.0




New Features and Changes in CDH 5.1.0

This is a minor release which introduces the following new features and changes, organized by component. See also What's New in Apache
Impala.


Operating System Support

CDH 5.1 adds support for version 6.5 of RHEL and related platforms. See CDH and
Cloudera Manager Supported Operating Systems.



Apache Crunch


CDH 5.1.0 implements Crunch 0.10.0.




Apache Flume


CDH 5.1.0 implements Flume 1.5.0.




Apache Hadoop

HDFS

POSIX Access Control Lists: As of CDH 5.1, HDFS supports POSIX Access Control Lists (ACLs), an addition to the traditional POSIX permissions model already
supported. ACLs provide fine-grained control of permissions for HDFS files by providing a way to set different permissions for specific named users or named groups. For more information, see HDFS Extended ACLs.
NFS Gateway Improvements:CDH 5.1 makes the following improvements to the HDFS NFS gateway capability:

Subdirectory mounts :

Previously, clients could mount only the HDFS root directory.
As of CDH 5.1. a single mount point, configured via the nfs.export.point property in hdfs-site.xml on the NFS gateway
node, is available to clients.


Improved support for Kerberized clusters (HDFS-5898):

Previously the NFS Gateway could connect to a secure cluster, but didn’t support logging in from a keytab.
As of CDH 5.1, set the nfs.kerberos.principal and nfs.keytab.file properties in hdfs-site.xml to allow users to log in from a keytab.


Support for port monitoring (HDFS-6406):

Previously, the NFS Gateway would always accept connections from any client.
As of CDH 5.1, set nfs.port.monitoring.disabled to false in hdfs-site.xml to allow
connections only from privileged ports (those with root access).


Static uid/gid mapping for NFS clients that are not in synch with the NFS Gateway (HDFS-6435):

NFS sends UIDs and GIDs over the network from client to server, meaning that the UIDs and GIDs must be in synch between clients and server machines in order for users and groups to be
set appropriately for file access and file creation; this is usually but not always the case.
As of CDH 5.1, you can configure a static UID/GID mapping file, by default /etc/nfs.map.
You can change the default (to use a different file path) by means of the nfs.static.mapping.file property in hdfs-site.xml.
The following sample entries illustrate the format of the file:
uid 10 100 # Map the remote UID 10 the local UID 100
gid 11 101 # Map the remote GID 11 to the local GID 101


Hadoop portmap, or insecure system portmap, no longer required:

Many supported OS have portmap bugs detailed here.
CDH 5.1 allows you to circumvent the problems by starting the NFS gateway as root, whether you install CDH from packages or parcels.
Note:
After initially registering with the system portmap as root, the NFS Gateway drops privileges and runs as a regular user.


Cloudera Manager starts the gateway as root by default.


Support for AIX NFS clients (HDFS-6549):

To deploy AIX NFS clients, set nfs.aix.compatibility.mode.enabled to true in hdfs-site.xml.
This enables code that handles bugs in the AIX implementation of NFS.



For more information, see Configuring an NFSv3 Gateway Using the
Command Line.



MapReduce and YARN

YARN with Impala supports Dynamic Prioritization.




Apache HBase


CDH 5.1.0 implements HBase 0.98.
As of CDH 5.1.0, HBase fully supports BucketCache, which was introduced as an experimental feature in CDH 5 Beta 1.
HBase now supports access control for EXEC permissions.
CDH 5.1.0 HBase introduces a reverse scan API; allowing you to scan a table in reverse.
You can now run a MapReduce job over a snapshot from HBase, rather than being limited to live data.
A new stateless streaming scanner is available over the REST API.
The delete* methods of the Delete class of the HBase Client API now use the timestamp from the constructor, the same behavior as the Put class. (In HBase
versions before CDH 5.1, the delete* methods ignored the constructor's timestamp, and used the value of HConstants.LATEST_TIMESTAMP. This behavior was different from
the behavior of the add() methods of the Put class.)
The SnapshotInfo tool has been enhanced in the following ways:

A new option, -list-snapshots, has been added to the SnapshotInfo command. This option allows you to list snapshots
on either a local or remote server.
You can now pass the -size-in-bytes flag to print the size of snapshot files in bytes rather than the default human-readable format.
The size of each snapshot file in bytes is checked against the size reported in the manifest, and if the two sizes differ, the tool reports the file as corrupt.


A new -target option for ExportSnapshot allows you to specify a different name for the target cluster from the
snapshot name on the source cluster.

In addition, Cloudera has fixed some binary incompatibilities between HBase 0.96 and 0.98. As a result, the incompatibilities introduced by HBASE-10452 and HBASE-10339
do not affect CDH 5.1 HBase, as explained below:

HBASE-10452 introduced a new exception and error message in setTimeStamp(), for an extremely unlikely event when where getting a TimeRange could fail because of an integer overflow. CDH 5.1 suppresses the new exception to retain compatibility with HBase 0.96, but logs the error.
HBASE-10339 contained code which inadvertently changed the signatures of the getFamilyMap method. CDH 5.1 restores these signatures to those used in
HBase 0.96, to retain compatibility.





Apache Hive


Permission inheritance fixes
Support for decimal computation, and for reading and writing decimal-format data from and to Parquet and Avro




Hue

CDH 5.1.0 implements Hue 3.6.
New Features:

Search App v2:

100% Dynamic dashboard
Drag-and-Drop dashboard builder
Text, Timeline, Pie, Line, Bar, Map, Filters, Grid and HTML widgets
Solr Index creation wizard (from a file)


Ability to view compressed Snappy, Avro and Parquet files
Impala HA
Close Impala and Hive sessions queries and commands




Apache Mahout


CDH 5.1.0 implements Mahout 0.9.

See also Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations.



Apache Oozie


You can now submit Sqoop jobs from the Oozie command line.
LAST_ONLY execution mode now works correctly (OOZIE-1319).




Cloudera Search

New Features:

A Quick Start script that automates using Search to query data from the Enron Email dataset. The script downloads the data, expands it, moves it
to HDFS, indexes, and pushes the results live. The documentation now also includes a companion quick start guide, which describes the tasks the script completes, as well as customization
options.
solrctl now has built-in support for schema-less Solr. For more information,
see Schemaless Mode Overview and Best Practices.
Sentry-based document-level security for role-based access control of a collection. Document-level access control associates authorization tokens
with each document in the collection, enabling granting Sentry roles access to sets of documents in a collection.
Cloudera Search includes a version of Kite 0.10.0, which includes all morphlines-related backports of all fixes and features in Kite 0.15.0. For
additional information on Kite, see:

Kite repository
Kite Release Notes
Kite documentation
Kite examples


Support for the Parquet file format is included with this version of Kite 0.10.0.
Inclusion of hbase-indexer-1.5.1, a new version of the Lily HBase Indexer. This new version of the indexer includes the 0.10.0 version of Kite
mentioned above. This 0.10.0 version of Kite includes the backports and fixes included in Kite 0.15.0.




Apache Sentry (incubating)


CDH 5.1.0 implements Sentry 1.2. This includes a database-backed Sentry service which uses the more traditional GRANT/REVOKE statements instead of the previous policy file approach
making it easier to maintain and modify privileges.
Revised authorization privilege model for Hive and Impala. For more details, see The Sentry Service.




Apache Spark


CDH 5.1.0 implements Spark 1.0.
The spark-submit command abstracts across the variety of deployment modes that Spark supports and takes care of assembling the classpath for
you.
Application History Server (SparkHistoryServer) improves monitoring capabilities.
You can launch PySpark applications against YARN clusters. PySpark currently only works in YARN Client mode.

Other improvements include:

Streaming integration with Kerberos
Addition of more algorithms to MLLib (Sparse Vector Support)
Improvements to Avro integration
Spark SQL alpha release (new SQL engine). Spark SQL allows you to run SQL statements inside a Spark application that manipulate and produce RDDs.
Note:
Because of its immaturity and alpha status, Cloudera does not currently offer commercial support for Spark SQL, but bundles it with our distribution so that you can try it out.


Authentication of all Spark communications







What's New in CDH 5.1.2

This is a maintenance release which fixes several issues. See Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.2
Note:
There is no CDH 5.1.1 release. This skip in the CDH 5.x sequence allows the CDH and CM components of Cloudera Enterprise 5.1.2 to have consistent
numbering.




What's New in CDH 5.1.3

This is a maintenance release that fixes several issues. See Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.3.



What's New in CDH 5.1.4

This is a maintenance release that fixes important security issues. See Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.4,



What's New in CDH 5.1.5

This is a maintenance release that fixes several issues. See Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.5.



Categories: CDH | Crunch | Flume | Getting Started | HBase | HDFS | Hadoop | Hive | Hue | Linux | Mahout | MapReduce | New Features | Oozie | Release Notes | Search | Sentry | Spark | Upgrading | What's New | YARN | All Categories



What's New In CDH 5.2.x


What's New in CDH 5.0.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












