



What's New in CDH 5.11.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation
























































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New in CDH 5.11.x


Continue reading:

What's New in CDH 5.11.2
What's New in CDH 5.11.1
What's New In CDH 5.11.0




What's New in CDH 5.11.2

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.2.



What's New in CDH 5.11.1

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.1.



What's New In CDH 5.11.0


The following sections describe new features introduced in 5.11.0.

Apache Hadoop
Apache HBase
Apache Hive
Hue
Apache Impala
Apache Oozie
Apache Spark
Cloudera Search
ZooKeeper




Apache Hadoop


Supported Apache Tomcat TLS ciphers for HttpFS are configurable using the HTTPFS_SSL_CIPHERS environment variable.
Supported Apache Tomcat TLS ciphers for the KMS are configurable using the KMS_SSL_CIPHERS environment variable.
Amazon S3 Consistency with Metadata Caching (S3Guard)
Data written to Amazon S3 buckets is subject to the "eventual consistency" guarantee provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS), which means that data written to S3 may not be immediately
available for queries and listing operations. This can cause failures in multi-step ETL workflows, where data from a previous step is not available to the next step. To mitigate these consistency
issues you can now configure metadata caching for data stored in Amazon S3 using S3Guard. S3Guard requires that you provision a DynamoDB database from Amazon Web Services and configure S3Guard using
the Cloudera Manager Admin Console or command-line tools. See Configuring and Managing S3Guard.

Amazon S3 Server-side Encryption with SSE-KMS
Clusters that use Amazon S3 storage can now use Amazon Server-Side
Encryption with AWS KMS–Managed Keys (SSE-KMS) to encrypt data, so you now have two choices for data-at-rest encryption on Amazon S3 (SSE-S3, SSE-KMS). Use Cloudera Manager Admin Console to
configure the cluster to use this new feature as detailed in How to Configure Encryption for Amazon S3.





Apache HBase


CDH 5.11.0 includes the introduction of “region server groups”. This feature allows for specific tables to be tied to specific region servers. The primary benefit of region server
groups is application isolation. Multiple applications on HBase can be assured that there will be no i/o, cpu, and memory contention as long as they only access tables in mutually exclusive region
server groups. There are trade-offs when using region server groups, notably performance. Tables that are assigned to region server groups will not be able to recruit the full hardware resources of
the cluster, and the maximum possible throughput for tables assigned to region server groups composed of a subset of the region servers that comprise the cluster will be slower than those that are
not.
Use MOB_COMPACT_PARTITION_POLICY options to reduce the number of MOB files stored in HDFS. You can choose from daily, weekly, and monthly options.




Apache Hive



Hive on Amazon S3 performance optimizations for:


HIVE-14204 : Dynamic partitioning writes and the INSERT OVERWRITE
statement


HIVE-15546 : Parallel input path listing


HIVE-13901, HIVE_15879 : Performance and stability of the MSCK command for recovering partitions


See Tuning Hive Performance on the Amazon S3 Filesystem


Support for Microsoft Azure Data Lake Store (ADLS) as a secondary filesystem for Hive on MapReduce2 (YARN). You can use Hive on MapReduce2 or Hive-on-Spark to read and write data stored
on ADLS.
See Configuring ADLS Connectivity for CDH.


AWS cloud clusters can now share a single persistent instance of Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS) as the Hive metastore backend database, enabling persistent sharing of metadata
beyond a cluster's life cycle.
See How To Set Up a Shared Amazon RDS as Your Hive Metastore for CDH





Hue



Integrate Navigator with Hue: Phase 1, Metadata Discovery

Search and tag partitions, databases, views, tables, columns.
Off by default. Check both "Enable" fields in Hue > Configuration > Cloudera Navigator.
See How to Use Governance-Based Data Discovery.



Embed new create table wizard within Editor and Assist

Safely import multiple formats such as Kudu, Parquet, JSON, and CSV.
More easily create table partitions.


Continued SQL improvements

Visually more pleasant colors and text.
No more hanging spinner in the Editor.



HUE-5742: Allow non-public PostgreSQL schemas.


HUE-5608: Add ability to DESC table without TABLE level privilege





Apache Impala

See What's New in Apache Impala.



Apache Oozie


Supported TLS ciphers for Apache Tomcat are configurable using the OOZIE_HTTPS_CIPHERS environment variable.




Apache Spark

Blacklisting. This feature reduces the chance of application failure, by not scheduling work on hosts that are experiencing intermittent disk failures. See this blog post for background information.
You can enable Kerberos authentication and TLS/SSL encryption for the Spark History Server through Cloudera Manager configuration settings, rather than including the password in clear
text in an Advanced Configuration Snippet field. See these settings in the Cloudera Manager user interface:

history_server_spnego_enabled - for Kerberos authentication
history_server_admin_users
spark.ssl.historyServer.enabled
spark.ssl.historyServer.protocol
spark.ssl.historyServer.port
spark.ssl.historyServer.enabledAlgorithms
spark.ssl.historyServer.keyStore
spark.ssl.historyServer.keyStorePassword

With authentication enabled, only Kerberos-authorized users can read data from the Spark History Server, and non-admin users can only see information about their own jobs.
With TLS/SSL enabled, you provide the location of the keystore and its password, similar to the security configuration for other components.
Navigator lineage. The former Spark lineage extractor that was enabled through a safety valve is superceded by a more robust lineage collection mechanism. See Apache Spark Known Issues for some limitations and restrictions with this feature.
Support for Azure Data Lake Store (ADLS) as a secondary filesystem. You can use Spark jobs to read and write data stored on ADLS. Hive-on-Spark and Spark with Kudu are not currently
supported for ADLS data.



Cloudera Search


Supported TLS ciphers for Apache Tomcat are configurable using the SOLR_CIPHERS_CONFIG environment variable.




ZooKeeper

Server-Server Mutual Authentication
All ZooKeeper servers in an ensemble can now be configured to support quorum peer (server-server) mutual authentication, mitigating risk of spoofing by a rogue server on an unsecured
network. The feature leverages Kerberos authentication through the SASL framework, so Kerberos is required.
This feature is easy to enable using Cloudera Manager Admin Console. See Enabling Server-Server Mutual
Authentication in the ZooKeeper Authentication page of Cloudera Security for details.




Categories: CDH | Fixed Issues | Getting Started | New Features | Release Notes | Spark | Upgrading | What's New | All Categories



What's New in CDH 5.12.x


What's New in CDH 5.10.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












