



What's New in CDH 5.13.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation














































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New in CDH 5.13.x


The following sections describe new features introduced in 5.13.0.

Apache Hive / Hive-on-Spark / HCatalog
Apache Impala
Apache Kudu
Apache Pig
Apache Sentry




Apache Hive / Hive-on-Spark / HCatalog



Support for dynamic partition pruning for map joins on Hive on Spark. Dynamic partition pruning (DPP) is a database optimization that can significantly decrease the amount of data that a
query scans, thereby executing your workloads faster. It is disabled by default, but can be enabled by setting the hive.spark.dynamic.partition.pruning.map.join.only
property to true. When enabled, DPP only triggers for queries where the join on the partitioned column is a map join. For details, see Dynamic Partition Pruning for Hive Map Joins.


Sentry supports Hive metastore high availability. In CDH 5.13 and above, you can use Sentry with Hive metastore high availability, with or without Sentry high availability. For
information about the high availability architecture and steps to set up Sentry high availability, see Sentry High Availability.


Apache Pig now supports writing partitioned Hive tables in the Parquet format using HCatalog. For details, see Using
HCatalog to Write to Parquet Hive Tables with Pig.





Apache Impala

The following are some of the most significant new Impala features in this release:


Improvements to memory management through the use of a buffer pool. This mechanism allows queries to use less memory, reserves the required memory during query startup, and reduces the
frequency of out-of-memory errors. It makes query planning and memory estimation more accurate, so that if a query begins executing it is unlikely to encounter an out-of-memory error partway through.
The memory buffer used during spill-to-disk processing is smaller: instead of 8 MiB, this buffer defaults to 2 MiB and Impala can reduce it to as little as 64 KiB when appropriate.
This feature includes new query options for fine-tuning memory areas used during query processing: MIN_SPILLABLE_BUFFER_SIZE, DEFAULT_SPILLABLE_BUFFER_SIZE, MAX_ROW_SIZE, and BUFFER_POOL_LIMIT.


Improvements to the mechanism for caching HDFS file handles. This caching mechanism improves the performance and scalability of queries that access the same file multiple times, for
example to retrieve different columns from a Parquet file. Caching the file handle across open() calls reduces the load on the HDFS NameNode.
This feature is currently disabled by default. It is enabled by setting a non-zero value for the max_cached_file_handles configuration setting. Currently,
ETL processes that append to existing HDFS files or overwrite HDFS files in place can interact with this setting in a way that turns off short-circuit reads for some impalad hosts. See HDFS-12528 for tracking information.


A new command in impala-shell, rerun or its abbreviation @, lets you re-execute
previous commands based on their numbering in the history output.


You can specify the minimum required TLS/SSL version using the --ssl_minimum_version setting, for example --ssl_minimum_version=tlsv1.2.


You can specify the set of allowed TLS ciphers using the --ssl_cipher_list configuration setting. See the output of man ciphers for the full set of keywords and notation allowed in the argument string.


New or enhanced built-in functions:


trunc() can now apply to numeric types (FLOAT, DOUBLE, and DECIMAL) in addition to TIMESTAMP. Although this functionality was already available through the truncate() function,
the new signatures for trunc() make it easier to port code from other popular database systems to Impala.


A new date/time function utc_timestamp() provides a simple way to get a stable, interoperable representation of a TIMESTAMP
value without using a chain of functions to convert between representations and apply a specific timezone.




The CREATE TABLE LIKE PARQUET statement can now handle Parquet files produced outside of Impala and containing ENUM types.
The ENUM columns become STRING columns in the target table, and the ENUM values are turned into
corresponding STRING values.


Kudu enhancements:


You can now create a Kudu table without using a PARTITION BY clause. Kudu automatically creates a single partition to cover the entire possible range of
values. This feature is intended for small lookup tables, where the overhead of partitioning does not make sense for tables that typically have a full table scan for each query.


More granular Sentry authorization for Kudu tables. Kudu tables can now use column-level privileges. The SELECT and INSERT
statements can now use the corresponding SELECT and INSERT privileges. Other Kudu statements still require the ALL privilege.


The ALTER TABLE statement can modify a number of storage attributes for the columns of Kudu tables. You can use the ALTER
COLUMN clause of ALTER TABLE along with the SET keyword to change the properties DEFAULT,
BLOCK_SIZE, ENCODING, and COMPRESSION. You can use the DROP DEFAULT clause
to remove the default value from a column.




For non-Kudu tables, you can use the ALTER TABLE syntax ALTER COLUMN col
SET COMMENT 'text' to change the comment for an individual column.





Apache Kudu

Starting with Apache Kudu 1.5.0 / CDH 5.13.x, Kudu has been fully integrated into CDH. Kudu now ships as part of the CDH parcel and packages. The documentation for Kudu has also been
incorporated into the Cloudera Enterprise documentation here.
For a complete list of new features and changes introduced in Kudu (in CDH 5.13), see What's New in Apache Kudu.



Apache Pig



Pig now supports writing partitioned Hive tables in the Parquet format using HCatalog. For details, see Using HCatalog to
Write to Parquet Hive Tables with Pig.





Apache Sentry



High availability for Sentry provides automatic failover in the event that your primary Sentry host goes down or is unavailable. In CDH 5.13.0, you can have two Sentry hosts. For
information about how to configure high availability for Sentry, see Sentry High Availability.
You must add Sentry to the list of groups that the Hive user can impersonate in the Hive Metastore Access Control and Proxy User Groups Override
setting. See Configuring the Sentry Service for more information about Sentry service configuration.
Sentry supports Hive metastore high availability.





Categories: CDH | Getting Started | New Features | Release Notes | Upgrading | What's New | All Categories



What's New in CDH 5.14.x


What's New in CDH 5.12.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












