



What's New in CDH 5.12.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation












































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New in CDH 5.12.x


The following sections describe new features introduced in 5.12.0.

Apache Hadoop
Apache Hive / Hive-on-Spark
Hue
Apache Impala
Apache HBase
Apache Spark
S3Guard List-After-Delete Consistency




Apache Hadoop



Added documentation for using the HA nameservice of a remote cluster in the DistCp command line arguments. For more information, see Using DistCp with Highly Available Remote Clusters.
HADOOP-14104: Added DistCp support for clusters with HDFS encryption zones.





Apache Hive / Hive-on-Spark



Support for Microsoft Azure Data Lake Store (ADLS) as a secondary filesystem for both Hive on MapReduce2 (YARN) and Hive-on-Spark. You can now use both Hive on MapReduce2 and
Hive-on-Spark to read and write data stored on ADLS.
See Configuring ADLS Connectivity for CDH


The Hive schematool is integrated with Cloudera Manager where you can use it to upgrade or validate the Hive metastore schema.
See Using the Hive Schema Tool in CDH for details.


HIVE-1575: Added support for JSON arrays at the root level by the
get_json_object function. For example:

SELECT get_json_object('[1,2,3]', '$[0]')...        
            





Hue

Hue 4 is out and jam-packed with great new features.
New Layout in Hue 4!

Apps are consolidated under blue button–set your favorite as default landing page
Top search bar lets you search for saved queries and other data
Left and right assist panels let you search and filter schema objects
Cursor position determines which of multiple queries to run
New Pig editor, Job Designer, and Job Browser
Access old Hue 3 layout under user drop down or remove "hue" from URL.




Load Balancer Added by Default
During a new installation of CDH/Hue, one Load Balancer is automatically promoted to ensure optimal performance–it can reduce the Hue server load by up to 90%! In existing clusters,
administrators are prompted to add a load balancer role and users are then guided on how to enable it. See the Cloudera Blog on Automatic HA.
Test LDAP Configuration
Verify your LDAP configuration, on-the-fly, with this new feature in Cloudera Manager under Hue >
Actions > Test LDAP Configuration. See Authenticate Hue
Users with LDAP.
Navigator Optimizer Integrated (Phase 1)
With Navigator Optimizer enabled in Hue, popular tables, columns, joins, filters are displayed in the autocompleter. Risky statements, such as missing filters on partitioned tables,
trigger an alert.
Navigator Search & Tag Enabled by Default
With Navigator enabled in Hue, you can search and tag metadata. This feature is now enabled by default (with Cloudera Navigator installed). See How to Use Governance-Based Data Discovery.
Other Cool Features


You can create partitioned tables from files
Impala metadata is refreshed automatically
SQL autocompleter handles more advanced corner cases
Remote Load balancer works with SSL
Query history is paginated!





Apache Impala

The following are some of the most significant new Impala features in this release:


Impala can now read and write data stored on the Microsoft Azure Data Lake Store (ADLS). See Using Impala with the Azure Data Lake Store
(ADLS) for details.


New built-in functions:


A new string function, replace(), which is faster than regexp_replace() for simple string
substitutions. See Impala String Functions for details.


A new conditional function, nvl2(), which offers more flexibility than the nvl() function. It lets you return one value for
NOT NULL arguments, and a different value for NULL arguments. See Impala Conditional Functions for details.


A new date/time function, last_day(), for finding the date corresponding to the last day of a particular month. See Impala Date and Time Functions for details.




New syntax, REFRESH FUNCTIONS db_name, lets Impala recognize newly added functions, such as UDFs created through Hive.
Impala scans the metadata for a specified database to locate the new functions, which is faster and more convenient than doing a full INVALIDATE METADATA operation.


The new TABLESAMPLE clause for the SELECT statement lets you specify a percentage of the overall data volume within a table
to process during a query.


Startup flags for the impalad daemon, is_executor and is_coordinator, let you divide the work on a large, busy cluster between a small number of hosts acting as query coordinators, and a
larger number of hosts acting as query executors. By default, each host can act in both roles, potentially introducing bottlenecks during heavily concurrent workloads. See How to Configure Impala with Dedicated Coordinators for details.


A new query option, DEFAULT_JOIN_DISTRIBUTION_MODE, lets you change the default assumption about how join queries should handle tables with no statistics.
This can help to avoid out-of-memory conditions for join queries, without manual tuning to add the /* +SHUFFLE */ hint for queries on large tables with missing
statistics.


The SORT BY clause lets you create Parquet files with more efficient compression and smaller ranges of values for specified columns, allowing Impala to
apply optimizations to skip reading data from Parquet files that do not contain any values that match equality and range operators in the WHERE clause. See
CREATE TABLE Statement for details.


The max_audit_event_log_files lets you perform log rotation for the audit event log files, similar to the rotation for regular Impala log files.


Kudu enhancements:


The ALTER TABLE statement can specify more attributes for a Kudu table with the ADD COLUMNS clause. Now you can specify
[NOT] NULL, ENCODING COMPRESSION, DEFAULT, and BLOCK_SIZE. See ALTER TABLE Statement for details.


The TIMESTAMP type is now available for Kudu tables.
Note: See Handling Date, Time, or Timestamp Data with
Kudu for information about the tradeoffs between performance and convenience when using this data type. For high-performance applications, you might continue to use the BIGINT type to represent date/time values.



The INSERT and CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statements are more efficient when writing to Kudu tables. Formerly, the overhead for
the write operations could result in timeouts when writing large numbers of rows in a single operation.







Apache HBase



Apache HBase now has ADLS support and recommendations for Azure deployment.
Outside of cloud, HBase now has support for long-lived Spark applications via token renewal.





Apache Spark

Spark can read and write data on the Azure Data Lake Store (ADLS) cloud service. See Accessing Data Stored in Azure Data Lake Store (ADLS) through
Spark for details.



S3Guard List-After-Delete Consistency

This release adds Delete Tracking for S3Guard. Running CDH 5.11.0 clusters against the same DynamoDB table as clusters running
CDH5.12.0 or higher is not supported. S3Guard in CDH5.11.0 does not work with the newer schema. CDH 5.11.1 and higher releases are compatible with the newer tables when running CDH 5.12.0 and
higher.
S3Guard does not track deletes unless you are running a version with Delete Tracking support (CDH 5.12.0 and higher).



Categories: CDH | Getting Started | New Features | Release Notes | S3Guard | Upgrading | What's New | All Categories



What's New in CDH 5.13.x


What's New in CDH 5.11.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












