



What's New In CDH 5.5.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation













































































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New In CDH 5.5.x


Continue reading:

What's New in CDH 5.5.0
What's New in CDH 5.5.1
What's New in CDH 5.5.2
What's New in CDH 5.5.4
What's New in CDH 5.5.5
What's New in CDH 5.5.6




What's New in CDH 5.5.0


The following sections describe new features introduced in CDH 5.5.0.

Operating System and Database Support
Apache Flume
Apache Hadoop
Apache HBase
Cloudera Search
Apache Sentry (incubating)
Apache Spark
Apache Sqoop




Operating System and Database Support


Operating Systems - Support for RHEL/CentOS 6.6 (in SE Linux mode), 6.7, and 7.1, and Oracle Enterprise Linux 7.1.
Important: Cloudera supports RHEL 7 with the following limitations:

Only RHEL 7.1 is supported. RHEL 7.0 is not supported.
Only new installations of RHEL 7.1 are supported by Cloudera. For upgrades to RHEL 7.1, contact your OS vendor and see Does Red Hat support upgrades between major versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux?



Databases - Supports MariaDB 5.5, Oracle 12c, and PostgreSQL 9.4.




Apache Flume



CDH 5.5 release is rebased on Flume 1.6.
FLUME-2498 Taildir source.
FLUME-2215 ResettableFileInputStream support for ucs-4 character.
FLUME-2729 PollableSource backoff times made configurable.
FLUME-2628 Netcat source support for different source encodings.
FLUME-2753 Support for empty replace string in Search and Replace interceptor.
FLUME-2763 Flume_env script support to handle JVM parameters.
FLUME-2095 JMS source support for username and password.





Apache Hadoop


HADOOP-1540 - DistCp supports file exclusions with a new filter option, -exclusions <argument>, to prevent files from being copied. The argument is a file that contains a list of Java regex patterns (one per line). If an exclusion pattern is
matched, the file is not copied. To use, pass -filters <pathToFileterFile> to the distcp command.
HADOOP-8989 - The Hadoop shell now has a find utility, like
that in UNIX, that allows users to search for files by name. Run hadoop fs -help find for more info.
HADOOP-11219, HADOOP-7280 - WebImageViewer was upgraded to Netty 4. This does not affect the external classpath of Hadoop.
HADOOP-11827 - DistCp buildListing() now uses a threadpool
to improve performance. To use, pass --numListstatusThreads <numThreads> to the distcp command. The default value is 1.
HDFS-6133 - HDFS balancer supports the exclusion of subtrees because running the HDFS
balancer can destroy local data that is important for applications such as the HBase RegionServer.
HDFS-8828 - DistCp leverages HDFS snapshot diff to more easily build file and directory
lists. The snapshot diff report provides diff information between two snapshots or between a snapshot and a non-HDFS directory.
Improvements to HDFS scalability and performance:

HDFS-7279 - In CDH 5.5.0 and higher, DataNode WebHDFS implementation uses Netty as an HTTP
server instead of Jetty. With improved buffer and connection management, Netty lowers the risk for DataNode latency and OutOfMemoryError (OOM).
HDFS-7435 and HDFS-8867 add more efficient over-the-wire encoding.
HDFS-7923 adds rate-limiting for block reports so that the NameNode is not swamped by
DataNodes sending too many block reports at once.
HDFS-7923 and HDFS-7999 eliminate some cases on the DataNode side where I/O errors lead to scans being repeated on the local disks.
HDFS-8581 fixes some cases where a lock is held for too long.
HDFS-8792 and HDFS-7609 optimize data structures on the NameNode side.
HDFS-9107 fixes a bug that could limit scalability on larger clusters by causing the NameNode
to falsely consider DataNodes to be dead.
Other bugs included: HADOOP-11785, HADOOP-12172, HADOOP-11659,
HDFS-8845






Apache HBase


CDH now includes a scanner heartbeat check, which enforces a time limit on the execution of scan RPC requests. When the server receives a scan RPC request, a time
limit is calculated to be half of the smaller of the two values hbase.client.scanner.timeout.period and hbase.rpc.timeout. When the time
limit is reached, the server will return the results it has accumulated up to that point. For more information, see Configuring the HBase Scanner Heartbeat.




Cloudera Search


Cloudera Search adds support for Kerberos authentication for hosts running Solr behind a proxy server. For additional information, see:

Using a Load Balancer with Solr
Using Search through a Proxy for High Availability
Configuring TLS/SSL for Solr


Cloudera Search adds support for using LDAP and Active Directory for authentication. For additional information, see:

Solr Authentication
Enabling LDAP Authentication for Solr


solrctl supports the Config API.
solrctl includes a config command that uses the Config API to directly manage configurations
represented in Config objects. Config objects represent collection configuration information as specified by the solrctl collection --create -c configName command. instancedir and Config objects handle the same information, meeting
the same need from the Solr server perspective, but there a number of differences between these two implementations.


Config and instancedir Comparison


Attribute
Config
instancedir




Security
Security support provided.

In a Kerberos-enabled cluster, the ZooKeeper hosts associated with configurations created using the Config API automatically have proper ZooKeeper
ACLs.
Sentry can be used to control access to the Config API, providing access control. For more information, see Configuring Sentry Authorization for Cloudera Search.




No ZooKeeper security support. Any user can create, delete, or modify an instancedir directly in ZooKeeper.
Because instancedir updates ZooKeeper directly, it is the client's responsibility to add the proper ACLs, which can be cumbersome.




Creation method
Generated from existing config or instancedir in
ZooKeeper using the ConfigSet API.
Manually edited locally and re-uploaded directly to ZooKeeper using solrctl
utility.


Template support


Several predefined templates are available. These can be used as the basis for creating additional configs. Additional templates can be created by creating
configs that are immutable.
Mutable templates that use a Managed Schema can be modified using the Schema API as opposed to being manually edited. As a result, configs are less flexible, but they are also less
error-prone than instancedirs.


One standard template.


Sentry support
Configs include a number of templates, each with Sentry-enabled and non-Sentry-enabled versions. To enable Sentry,
choose a Sentry-enabled template.
instancedirs include a single template that supports enabling Sentry. To enable Sentry with instancedirs, overwrite
the original solrconfig.xml file with solrconfig.xml.secure as described in Enabling Solr as a Client for the Sentry Service Using the Command Line.





Solr includes a set of built-in immutable configurations.
These templates are instantiated when Solr is initialized. This means these templates are not automatically available after an upgrade. To enable these templates on upgraded
installations, use solrctl init or initialize Solr using Cloudera Manager. The newly included templates and the functionality each template supports are as follows:


Available Config Templates and Attributes


Template Name
Supports Schema API
Uses Schemaless Solr
Supports Sentry




predefinedTemplate





managedTemplate





schemalessTemplate





predefinedTemplateSecure





managedTemplateSecure





schemalessTemplateSecure












Apache Sentry (incubating)


Sentry is rebased on Apache Sentry 1.5.1.
Sentry introduces column-level access control for tables in Hive and Impala. Previously, Sentry supported privilege granularity only at the table level. To restrict access to a column
of sensitive data, you needed to first create a view for a subset of columns, and then grant privileges on that view. Instead, Sentry now allows you to assign the SELECT privilege on a subset of columns in a table. See, Hive SQL Syntax for
Use with Sentry.
Support for enabling Kerberos authentication for the Sentry web server.




Apache Spark


Spark is rebased on Apache Spark 1.5.0.
Dynamic allocation is enabled by default. You can explicitly disable dynamic allocation by using the option: spark.dynamicAllocation.enabled = false.
Dynamic allocation is implicitly disabled if --num-executors is specified in the job.
The following Spark libraries are now supported:

Spark SQL (including DataFrames). The following Spark SQL features are not supported:

Thrift JDBC/ODBC server
Spark SQL CLI

See Using Spark SQL.
MLlib. The following MLlib features are not supported:

spark.ml
ML pipeline APIs


See Using Spark MLlib.






Apache Sqoop



Sqoop is rebased on Apache Sqoop 1.4.6.






What's New in CDH 5.5.1

This is a maintenance release that fixes important issues in Apache Commons and Apache HBase; for details, see Issues Fixed in
CDH 5.5.1.



What's New in CDH 5.5.2

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.2.



What's New in CDH 5.5.4

Note:
There is no CDH 5.5.3 release. This skip in the CDH 5.x sequence allows the CDH and Cloudera Manager components of Cloudera Enterprise 5.5.4 to have
consistent numbering.

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.4.



What's New in CDH 5.5.5

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.5 .



What's New in CDH 5.5.6

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.6.



Categories: CDH | Fixed Issues | Flume | Getting Started | HBase | Hadoop | Linux | New Features | Release Notes | Search | Sentry | Spark | Sqoop | Upgrading | What's New | All Categories



What's New In CDH 5.6.x


What's New In CDH 5.4.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












