



What's New In CDH 5.9.x | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation




















































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes





CDH 5
Release NotesNew Features and Changes in CDH 5








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New In CDH 5.9.x


Continue reading:

What's New in CDH 5.9.3
What's New in CDH 5.9.2
What's New in CDH 5.9.1
What's New in CDH 5.9.0




What's New in CDH 5.9.3

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.3.



What's New in CDH 5.9.2

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.2.



What's New in CDH 5.9.1

This is a maintenance release that fixes some important issues. For details, see Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.1.



What's New in CDH 5.9.0

Apache Hadoop


CDH 5.9 supports temporary credentials obtained from AWS Security Token Service (STS) to log in to Amazon S3.




Apache HBase


A tool has been added--org.apache.hadoop.hbase.replication.regionserver.DumpReplicationQueues--to dump existing replication peers, configurations, and
queues when using HBase replication. The tool includes two flags:

--distributed - Polls each replication server for information about the replication queues being processed on this replication server. By default, this
is not enabled, and the information about the replication queues and configuration is obtained from ZooKeeper.
--hdfs When --distributed is used, this flag attempts to calculate the total size of the WAL files used by the replication
queues. Because multiple peers can be configured, this value can be overestimated.

For more information, see Class
DumpReplicationQueues.

Metrics have been added that expose the amount of replayed work occurring in the HBase replication system. For more information on these metrics, see Replication Metrics in the Apache HBase Reference Guide.




Apache Hive



HIVE-14270 : Added parameters to optimize write performance for Hive
tables and partitions that are stored on Amazon S3. See Optimizing Hive Write Performance on Amazon S3.





Hue



HUE-2915: Integrates Hue with Amazon S3. You can now access both S3 and HDFS in the File Browser, create tables from files in S3, and save query results in S3. See
how to Enable S3 Cloud Storage.


HUE-4039: Improves SQL Autocompleter. The new Autocompleter deeply
understands Hive and Impala SQL dialects and provides smart suggestions based on statement structure and cursor position. See how to manually Enable and Disable Autocompleter.


HUE-3877: Adds support for Amazon RDS. You can now deploy Hue against an
Amazon RDS database instance with MySQL, PostgreSQL, and Oracle engines.


Rebase of Hue on upstream Hue 3.11.





Apache Impala



Performance improvements:


[IMPALA-3206] Speedup for queries against DECIMAL columns in
Avro tables. The code that parses DECIMAL values from Avro now uses native code generation.


[IMPALA-3674] Improved efficiency in LLVM code generation can reduce codegen time, especially for short
queries.


[IMPALA-2979] Improvements to scheduling on worker nodes, enabled by the REPLICA_PREFERENCE query option. See REPLICA_PREFERENCE Query Option (CDH 5.9 or higher
only) for details.




[IMPALA-1683] The REFRESH statement can be applied to a
single partition, rather than the entire table. See REFRESH Statement and Refreshing a Single Partition for details.


Improvements to the Impala web user interface:


[IMPALA-2767] You can now force a session to expire by clicking a link in the web UI, on the
/sessions tab.


[IMPALA-3715] The /memz tab includes more information
about Impala memory usage.


[IMPALA-3716] The Details page for a query now includes a
Memory tab.




[IMPALA-3499] Scalability improvements to the catalog server. Impala handles internal
communication more efficiently for tables with large numbers of columns and partitions, where the size of the metadata exceeds 2 GiB.


[IMPALA-3677] You can send a SIGUSR1 signal to any
Impala-related daemon to write a Breakpad minidump. For advanced troubleshooting, you can now produce a minidump without triggering a crash. See Breakpad Minidumps for Impala (CDH 5.8 or higher only) for details about the Breakpad minidump feature.


[IMPALA-3687] The schema reconciliation rules for Avro tables have changed slightly for
CHAR and VARCHAR columns. Now, if the definition of such a column is changed in the Avro schema file, the column retains its CHAR or VARCHAR type as specified in the SQL definition, but the column name and comment from the Avro schema file take precedence. See
Creating Avro Tables for details about column definitions in Avro tables.


[IMPALA-3575] Some network operations now have additional timeout and retry settings. The
extra configuration helps avoid failed queries for transient network problems, to avoid hangs when a sender or receiver fails in the middle of a network transmission, and to make cancellation
requests more reliable despite network issues.





Apache Oozie

Oozie adds a new database tool for migration and upgrade from Apache Derby (or any other supported database). For more information, see How to Use the New Apache Oozie Migration Tool.



Apache Sentry


Sentry supports data on Amazon RDS and can secure URIs with an RDS schema.
SENTRY-1233 - Logging improvements for SentryConfigToolSolr.
SENTRY-1119 - Allow data engines to obtain the ActionFactory
directly from the configuration, instead of having hardcoded component-specific classes. This will allow external data engines to integrate with Sentry easily.
SENTRY-1229 - Added a basic configurable cache to SentryGenericProviderBackend.




Apache Spark


You can now set up AWS credentials for Spark with the Hadoop credential provider, to avoid exposing the AWS secret key in configuration files.




Apache Sqoop


The mainframe import module extension has been added to support data sets on tape.




Cloudera Search


The Solr watchdog is now configured to use the fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of the host on which the Solr process is running (instead of 127.0.0.1). You can override this configuration by setting SOLR_HOSTNAME environment variable to appropriate value (before starting the Solr server).
Cloudera Search adds support for index snapshots. For more information on how to back up, migrate, or restore your indexed data, see Backing Up and Restoring Cloudera Search.





Categories: CDH | Getting Started | Hive | Hue | New Features | Release Notes | Spark | Upgrading | What's New | All Categories



What's New in CDH 5.10.x


What's New In CDH 5.8.x


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












