



What's New in Cloudera Documentation | 5.x | Cloudera Documentation










































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions









Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes














View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise 5.x Release Notes
Requirements and Supported Versions
Hardware Requirements Guide
Version and Download Information

Updating an existing CDH/Cloudera Manager deployment to access downloads with authentication
Cloudera Manager Version and Download Information
CDH Version and Packaging Information

CDH Download Information

CDH 5.16.x Download Information
CDH 5.15.x Download Information
CDH 5.14.x Download Information
CDH 5.13.x Download Information
CDH 5.12.x Download Information
CDH 5.11.x Download Information
CDH 5.10.x Download Information
CDH 5.9.x Download Information
CDH 5.8.x Download Information
CDH 5.7.x Download Information
CDH 5.6.x Download Information
CDH 5.5.x Download Information
CDH 5.4.x Download Information
CDH 5.3.x Download Information
CDH 5.2.x Download Information
CDH 5.1.x Download Information
CDH 5.0.x Download Information


CDH 5 Packaging and Tarball Information

CDH 5.16.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.15.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.14.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.13.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.12.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.11.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.10.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.9.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.8.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.7.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.6.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.5.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.4.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.3.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.2.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.1.x Packaging and Tarball Information
CDH 5.0.x Packaging and Tarball Information


Using the CDH 5 Maven Repository

Managing Hadoop API Dependencies in CDH 5
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.16.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.15.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.14.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.13.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.12.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.11.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.10.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.9.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.8.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.7.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.6.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.5.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.4.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.3.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.2.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.1.x Releases
Maven Artifacts for CDH 5.0.x Releases




Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Version and Download Information
Key Trustee KMS Version and Download Information
HSM KMS Version and Download Information
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Version and Download Information
Impala Version and Download Information


What's New in Cloudera Documentation
CDH 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in CDH 5

What's New in CDH 5.16.x
What's New in CDH 5.15.x
What's New in CDH 5.14.x
What's New in CDH 5.13.x
What's New in CDH 5.12.x
What's New in CDH 5.11.x
What's New in CDH 5.10.x
What's New In CDH 5.9.x
What's New In CDH 5.8.x
What's New In CDH 5.7.x
What's New In CDH 5.6.x
What's New In CDH 5.5.x
What's New In CDH 5.4.x
What's New In CDH 5.3.x
What's New In CDH 5.2.x
What's New in CDH 5.1.x
What's New in CDH 5.0.x
What's New In CDH 5 Beta Releases
What's New in Apache Impala
What's New in Apache Kudu


Incompatible Changes and Limitations

Apache Avro Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Crunch Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache DataFu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Flume Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hadoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache HBase Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Hive Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Hue Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Impala Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Kite Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Kudu Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Llama Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Mahout Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Oozie Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Pig Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Cloudera Search Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sentry Incompatible Changes
Apache Spark Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Sqoop Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache Whirr Incompatible Changes and Limitations
Apache ZooKeeper Incompatible Changes and Limitations


Known Issues in CDH 5

Operating System Known Issues
Performance Known Issues
Install and Upgrade Known Issues
Apache Avro Known Issues
Apache Flume Known Issues
Apache Hadoop Known Issues
Apache HBase Known Issues
Apache Hive Known Issues
Hue Known Issues
Apache Impala Known Issues
Cloudera Distribution of Apache Kafka Known Issues
Apache Kudu Known Issues
Apache Mahout Known Issues
Apache Oozie Known Issues
Apache Parquet Known Issues
Apache Pig Known Issues
Cloudera Search Known Issues
Apache Sentry Known Issues
Apache Spark Known Issues
Apache Sqoop Known Issues
Apache Phoenix Known Issues
Apache ZooKeeper Known Issues


Issues Fixed in CDH 5

Issues Fixed in CDH 5.16.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.15.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.14.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.13.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.12.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.11.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.10.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.9.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.8.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.7.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.6.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.5.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.4.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.3.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.2.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.1.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5.0.x
Issues Fixed in CDH 5 Beta Releases
Fixed Issues in Apache Impala
Issues Fixed in Apache Kudu




Cloudera Manager 5 Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Manager 5
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Manager 5
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Manager 5


Cloudera Navigator Data Management Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Data Management
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Data Management


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server


Cloudera Navigator Key HSM Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Key HSM


Key Trustee KMS Release Notes

New Features in Key Trustee KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Key Trustee KMS
Issues Fixed in Key Trustee KMS


Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


Cloudera Navigator Encrypt Release Notes

New Features and Changes in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Known Issues and Workarounds in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt
Issues Fixed in Cloudera Navigator Encrypt


Deprecated Items





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




What's New in Cloudera Documentation


This page describes new topics added and changes made to Cloudera documentation.

What's New in Cloudera Documentation in May, 2019
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in April, 2019
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in March, 2019
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in February, 2019
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in January, 2019
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in November, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in October, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in September, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in August, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in July, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in June, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in May, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in April, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in March, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in February, 2018
What's New in Cloudera Documentation in January, 2018




What's New in Cloudera Documentation in May, 2019

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in May, 2019:





Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Navigator

Improved information on

Navigator TLS configuration
Configuring Cloudera Navigator for LDAP





Configuring TLS/SSL for Navigator Metadata Server
Configuring Cloudera Navigator for LDAP









What's New in Cloudera Documentation in April, 2019

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in April, 2019:





Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Navigator

Added detailed information on how metadata is extracted from multiple sources and combined to generate lineage for data assets, specifically for Hive. This section helps understand when
you can expect lineage to appear after data assets are created on the cluster.

Metadata Extraction Timing







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in March, 2019

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in March, 2019:





Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Data Science Workbench
Published a new Security Overview for Cloudera Data Science Workbench. This topic goes over the basics of the CDSW
security model, the wildcard DNS requirement, and how authentication, authorization, and wire encryption work in Cloudera Data Science Workbench.
CDSW Security Overview







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in February, 2019

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in February, 2019:





Product
What's New
Link




Apache Impala
Added a new section on load-balancing proxy in TLS-enabled cluster.
Special Proxy Considerations for TLS/SSL-Enabled Clusters


Added a new section on enabling LDAP in Cloudera Manager.
Enabling LDAP in Cloudera Manager


Updated docs to reflect decoupling of compute and storage in Hadoop clusters.
Components of the Impala Server


Apache Kudu
Added a recommendation to use nscd (name service caching daemon) for all name resolutions.
Slow Name Resolution and nscd


Hue
The Hue Guide has been completely re-organized and additional content added. Look for further improvements in the
areas of performance tuning and reference architectures to be released soon.



CDH 5.16 Hue Guide
CDH 5.15 Hue Guide










What's New in Cloudera Documentation in January, 2019

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in January, 2019:





Product
What's New
Link




Apache Spark ML
Learn how to configure Spark ML to use native math libraries that accelerate model training speed for algorithms like
Alternating Least Squares (ALS).
Using Native Math Libraries to Accelerate Spark Machine
Learning Applications


Workload XM
The new Workload View feature enables you to break down workloads by specific criteria to perform deep-dive analysis
on the queries. For example, you can use the Workload View feature to determine which users are executing workloads that do not adhere to SLAs. You can also examine how queries being sent to specific
databases or that use specific pools are performing against SLAs.


Classifying Workloads for
Analysis with Workload Views
Video: Classifying Workloads to Gain Insights









What's New in Cloudera Documentation in November, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in November, 2018:





Product
What's New
Link




Apache HBase
Information about how to move the HBase Master role from one host to another.
Moving HBase Master Role to Another Host


Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee KMS
Added a new procedure that describes how to move a Key Trustee KMS proxy service role instance from an existing
cluster host to another cluster host. This feature is for 5.16.1 and later only.
Migrating a Key Trustee KMS
Server Role Instance to a New Host


Workload Experience Manager (Workload XM)
With the release of Cloudera Manager 5.16.1, new functionality has been added to Workload XM to redact logs and
queries and for proxy server support. These new features can be enabled by configuring the Telemetry Publisher service in Cloudera Manager. In addition to these new features, now you can download the
SQL commands to address "Corrupt Table Statistics" and "Missing Table Statistics" query health checks and numerous usability enhancements have also been added.
What's New from Workload XM


Information about how to configure Workload XM to tunnel through a firewall in your environment.
Configuring a Firewall for Workload XM


Detailed description of the diagnostic data collection performed by Workload XM.
Workload XM Diagnostic Data Collection







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in October, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in October, 2018:





Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Data Science Workbench
Released Cloudera Data Science Workbench 1.4.2.
This release fixes some critical bugs, including TSB-346: Risk of Data Loss on Cloudera Data Science
Workbench Shutdown and Restart. Please read the TSB and Upgrade Notes carefully before you start upgrading or perform a shutdown/restart operation on any previous version of CDSW.




Release Notes


Known Issues and Limitations





Apache HDFS
Documented how to enable authorization for HDFS web UIs.
Enabling Authorization for HDFS Web UIs


Apache Impala

Documented using a query option to set an execution time limit on queries.

Setting Time Limits on Long Running Queries



Documented the scheduler-related query hints and options support Kudu tablets.



Impala Hints
Impala Query Option




Apache Kudu
Noted that it is better to let Kudu manage its own striping over multiple devices rather than delegating the striping
to a RAID-0 array.
Kudu Configuration


Cloudera Navigator

Added detailed steps for streaming Navigator audit events to a Kafka topic.

Publishing Audit Events to Kafka



Added tips on how to get the most from your Navigator Audit Server implementation, including some maintenance steps that will help you make sure you are collecting the right audit
events.

Maintaining Navigator Audit Server


Apache Sentry
Updated the Sentry privilege tables for Hive and Impala. They now include all possible privileges on each possible
scope.
Privilege Tables for Hive and Impala







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in September, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in September, 2018:





Product
What's New
Link




Apache Impala

Documented missing query options:

PARQUET_READ_STATISTICS
PARQUET_DICTIONARY_FILTERING





PARQUET_DICTIONARY_FILTERING Query
Option
PARQUET_READ_STATISTICS Query Option







Added a table of all Impala functions with links to each function as an alternative approach to having a page for each built-in function.

Impala Built-In Functions



Reformatted the built-in functions docs format change for better readability.




Re-factored the Impala Authorization doc with the focus on Sentry privilege model and the de-emphasis on the policy file-based model.

Enabling Sentry Authorization for Impala


Apache Kudu

Added a best practice section in the Kudu-Spark Integration avoiding multiple Kudu clients per cluster.

Developing Applications With Apache Kudu



Added the troubleshooting info on detecting ext2 and ext3 filesystems.

Troubleshooting Apache Kudu


Apache YARN
Added new topic that describes all aspects of creating and managing YARN ACLs.
Managing YARN ACLs







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in August, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in August, 2018:





Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Data Science Workbench
Added two new videos that demonstrate how to run experiments and deploy models with Cloudera Data Science
Workbench.



Experiments [YouTube]


Model Deployment [YouTube]





Apache Sentry
There is a new video on the Cloudera YouTube channel that shows how you can verify that your HDFS ACLs are synching
with Sentry. The video also shows that URI privileges are not applied as ACLs in HDFS.
How to
verify that HDFS ACLs are synching with Sentry


CDH - YARN
Updated the YARN tuning guide with new values.
Tuning YARN


Cloudera Altus
Description of Altus groups and their usage.
Groups


Cloudera Navigator
Added a new video that describes how to make sure your audit system is doing what you expect: are you collecting the
right events? are you retaining them as long as you need them? are you archiving them where they are retrievable?
Navigator Audit Checkup Video [Youtube]


Workload Experience Manager (Workload XM)
Cloudera's Workload XM launched this month and with it a new documentation set that explains how to use this tool to
gain in-depth understanding of the workloads you send to clusters managed by Cloudera Manager. It provides information that can be used for troubleshooting failed jobs and for optimizing slow jobs
that run on those clusters.
Workload Experience
Manager







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in July, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in July, 2018:




Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Data Science Workbench

Released Cloudera Data Science Workbench 1.4 with new features: Experiments and Models

1.4 Release Notes



Reorganized documentation to align with major product components: Projects, Jobs, Experiments, Models, Engines, and Site Administration.



Experiments
Model Deployment




Improved LDAP/SAML experience with support for group filters.
LDAP and SAML



New consolidated section for Engines in Cloudera Data Science Workbench.

Engines Overview



New topic that describes how engines are used for experiments and models.

Engines for Experiments & Models



This section also includes a topic that lists all the pre-installed packages in CDSW's Python and R kernels.

Pre-Installed Python and R Packages


Provided more code samples that demonstrate how to access cluster data from CDSW.
Data Access


Cloudera Navigator
Added a new video that gives a light-hearted look at the Cloudera Navigator brand and helps identify the value of each of the
Navigator components.
Navigator Brand Video [Youtube]


Reference Architectures
Cloudera Reference Architectures are now available in HTML format.
Reference
Architectures


Apache Sentry
After upgrading to CDH 5.13.0 and above, some customers experience a period of time in which HDFS ACLs are not synched. Possible
reasons for this problem are explained in the Release Notes, along with affected versions and fixes.


After upgrade, HDFS ACLs are not synched
due to Sentry taking too many snapshots
After upgrade, HDFS ACLs are not synched
due to Sentry taking too long to retrieve the snapshot from the database




Cloudera Altus
Added a description of the optional ec2:DeleteKeyPair permission in the AWS cross-account role that determines how Altus generates
key pairs for clusters.
Key Pair Permissions on EC2







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in June, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in June, 2018:




Product
What's New
Link




Apache Hive - HiveServer2 High Availability
Added new command-line instructions for configuring a proxy load balancer to support HiveServer2 high availability on unmanaged
clusters (those not managed by Cloudera Manager) with or without Kerberos.
Configuring HiveServer2 to Load Balance Behind a
Proxy on Unmanaged Clusters


Apache Sentry
Clarified the GRANT ROLE statement on group name restrictions, such as character restrictions, how to use backticks with those
restrictions, and OS group name requirements.
GRANT ROLE Statement


Clarified the description of what happens to synchronized ACLs during Sentry service failure.
HDFS/Sentry Synchronized Permissions


Added instructions for how to override Sentry's Kerberos prerequisite for the Hive metastore in Cloudera Manager.
Securing the Hive Metastore


Added new Amazon S3 information on creating a table in a bucket.
Creating a Table in a Bucket


Added new information on the privileges the Sentry Admin needs in HUE.
Hive SQL Syntax for Use with Sentry


Added the SHOW CREATE VIEW operation to the Hive and Impala privilege tables.
Authorization Privilege Model for Hive and Impala


Added a new example explaining how a user may see data from a database that they do not have access to if that data is in a
view.
Authorization Privilege Model for Hive and Impala


CDK Powered by Apache Kafka
Updated Kafka Requirements and Supported Versions with additional information about compatibility:

among client and broker versions
between Spark and embedded Kafka clients.




Kafka Client-Broker
Compatibility across Kafka Versions
Kafka Client Versions used by Apache
Spark in CDH




Apache ZooKeeper
Provided instructions for configuring the ZooKeeper server for Kerberos authentication using Cloudera Manager.
Configuring ZooKeeper Server for Kerberos Authentication


Cloudera Manager
Added a new procedure that describes how to migrate from the Cloudera Manager Embedded PostgreSQL database server to an external
PostgreSQL database.
Migrating from the Cloudera Manager
Embedded PostgreSQL Database Server to an External PostgreSQL Database


Cloudera Navigator
Added information on lineage in Navigator: what information is collected and how it is used to create lineage diagrams, what
entities are captured in the diagrams, and how diagrams change through the lifecycle of data assets.
Generating Lineage Diagrams


Cloudera Altus
Added a description of a new Altus environment option for secure clusters.
Enable Secure Clusters







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in May, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in May, 2018:




Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Upgrade
Added a new interactive topic that walks you through the steps to upgrade Cloudera Manager. You can select your operating system,
upgrade version, and database type and a customized page displays the steps for your upgrade.
Upgrading Cloudera Manager Using Packages


Added a new interactive topic that walks you through the steps to upgrade CDH using Cloudera Manager. You can select your Cloudera
Manager version, CDH upgrade version, and other information and a customized page displays the steps for your upgrade.
Upgrading CDH


HDFS Transparent Encryption
Extensively revised the KMS ACL topic, which now includes descriptions of all operations for each ACL class, as well as a diagram
and explanation that guides readers through the process of how the KMS evaluates the various ACL classes.
Configuring KMS Access Control Lists (ACLs)


Key Trustee KMS HA
Added new documentation for a feature that provides logic to detect and warn users about a potential problem where the GPG private
keys have not been properly synchronized across all Key Trustee KMS HA hosts.


Validating Private Key Synchronization (Key Trustee KMS HA Only)
Enabling Key Trustee KMS High Availability
Key Trustee KMS Encryption Issues




Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS
Added a new topic to guide users through the steps to upgrade an HSM KMS.
Upgrading Cloudera Navigator HSM KMS


HBase
Added new content that describes how to configure and enable cell-level ACLs for HBase.
Configure Cell-Level Access Control
Lists


Hue
Added new content that clarifies how to migrate the Hue database for MariaDB and MySQL.
MariaDB / MySQL


Cloudera Altus
Added information about defining custom tags for clusters.
Added information about Altus support for CDH 5.14.

Creating a Cluster for AWS
Creating a Cluster for
Azure



Restructured Altus documentation to create one doc set for Altus on AWS and Altus on Azure. Altus documentation now includes an
Administration Guide and a Data Engineering Guide.
Overview of
Cloudera Altus
Overview of Altus Data Engineering








What's New in Cloudera Documentation in April, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in April, 2018:




Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Altus
Added a new topic that describes how to set up an Altus trial account.
Getting Started with a Trial Account







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in March, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to the Cloudera documentation library in March, 2018:




Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Data Science Workbench
Added a new video that demonstrates how to get started with a Cloudera Data Science Workbench built-in template project.
CDSW Quickstart Demo [Youtube]


Added new Known Issues for Cloudera Manager and CDH integration.
Known Issues


Added a new topic on migrating a CDSW Deployment to Another Host.
Migrating a CDSW Deployment


Revamped the Backup topic with detailed instructions.
Creating a Backup


Added a new topic on how to uninstall Cloudera Data Science Workbench.
Uninstalling CDSW


JDK Requirements
Added new section on Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction requirements.
Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction


Navigator
Added a new example for Navigator Audit Server on how to use audit events to determine what caused a schema change to a table. Use
audit reports to identify the user or process that may be causing unwanted changes.
Who ran which operation against a table?


Cloudera Director
Added a new topic on using custom DNS names and DNS servers with auto-TLS.
Using Custom DNS with Auto-TLS in AWS







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in February, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in February, 2018:




Product
What's New
Link




Flume
The Apache Flume content is moved to a new Flume Guide. Information for configuring, using, and managing Flume is consolidated in
the Flume Guide.
Flume
Guide


HBase
The Apache HBase content is moved to a new HBase Guide. All the information for configuring, managing, and troubleshooting HBase is
in one central location.
HBase
Guide


Key HSM
Added a new section describing the file naming convention used for encryption zone keys.
Key Naming Convention


HDFS (Encryption)
Added a new section describing how to resolve an error that can occur when the KMS jute buffer size is insufficient to hold all the
tokens.
KMS server jute buffer exception


Sentry
The Apache Sentry content is moved to a new Sentry Guide. The Sentry Guide contains information on configuring, using, and
troubleshooting Sentry, as well as how-to guides.
Sentry
Guide


Cloudera Altus
Added a new topic that describes how to use the Cloudera Altus SDK for Java.
Using the Altus SDK for
Java







What's New in Cloudera Documentation in January, 2018

This section describes new topics added and major changes made to Cloudera documentation in January, 2018:




Product
What's New
Link




Cloudera Data Science Workbench
Released Cloudera Data Science Workbench 1.3.0.


Cloudera Data Science Workbench 1.3.0
Release Notes
Known Issues and
Limitations
New - Custom Project
Templates
New - Rollback Cloudera Data
Science Workbench
Updated Requirements and
Supported Platforms
Updated CSD Upgrade
Guide




Impala
Added tip about using Kudu Java API, instead of JDBC interface, for rapid insert operations.
Configuring Impala to Work with JDBC


Added DATE_TRUNC() function.
Impala Date and Time Functions


Added new upper limit for BATCH_SIZE query option.
BATCH_SIZE Query Option


Added information about a new kind of runtime filter, the "min-max" filter, which applies to join queries
involving Kudu tables.
Using Impala to Query Kudu Tables


Added new conditional operators: IS [NOT] TRUE, IS [NOT] FALSE, and
IS [NOT] UNKNOWN.
SQL Operators


Added information about changes to the output of the SET statement, dividing the options into
multiple groups, and hiding some groups by default. New SET ALL syntax shows all the option groups.
SET Statement


Added a new impala-shell option --query_option and configuration
file section [impala.query_options]. These features both allow specifying values for query options when starting impala-shell.
impala-shell Configuration Options


Kafka
Updated examples and removed deprecated properties for how to use Kafka with Flume.
Using Kafka with
Flume


Kafka
Updated Kafka upgrade topic to include versions.
Rolling Upgrade to Kafka 3.0.x


Key Trustee KMS
Added new procedure for migrating from a Key Trustee KMS (KT KMS) to a Hardware Security Module KMS (HSM KMS).
Migrating from a Key Trustee KMS to an HSM
KMS


Cloudera Manager

Added information on using Cloudera Manager to configure credentials for cluster access to Microsoft ADLS. This access is enabled for running Hive and Impala queries on tables backed by
data stored in ADLS and to browse ADLS data using Hue.

Configuring ADLS Access Using Cloudera Manager


Added information on how to enable performing minor maintenance on cluster hosts, Cloudera Manager now fully manages the host
decommission and recommission process. You can specify whether or not to replicate under-replicated data blocks to other DataNodes to maintain the cluster's replication factor during a maintenance
window.
Tuning and Troubleshooting Host Decommissioning



Provided examples for how to use the API to manage BDR.

How To
Automate BDR Replication with the Cloudera Manager API



Added a video walkthrough for how to add a cluster to Cloudera Manager.


How to Add a Cluster to Cloudera Manager [YouTube]



Cloudera Director

Added inforamtion on Cloudera Director 2.7 configuration option to point to an organization’s LDAP server so that users common credentials may be used to login to Cloudera Director. When
enabling LDAP support, Cloudera Director’s built in user management is disabled.

Configuring Cloudera Director Server for LDAP and Active Directory



Added information that Cloudera Director can handle all aspects of Java installation on the instances that it allocates and configures for Cloudera Manager and CDH clusters, offering
more flexibility while simplifying the process for users.

Deploying Java on Cluster Instances


Added a configuration option to Cloudera Director's AWS plugin to accommodate regions like GovCloud and China, where EC2 cannot tag
instances upon creation. The documentation now includes the procedure for configuring the plugin to use this option.
Configuring Tag-on-create for AWS GovCloud (US) and
China (Beijing) Regions


Cloudera Navigator

Added information that metadata searches in Navigator now include the ability to group search results by common properties. Group by lets you use technical, managed, and custom metadata
to quickly identify small files, active SQL users, table-creation trends, and other data aggregation trends revealed by metadata properties.
The documentation includes some examples of how grouping search results can help you understand trends in your data and to find specific data assets.

Grouping Search Results Using
Metadata



Updated Navigator role names to more clearly reflect the privileges they provide. One specific change is that the privilege for editing the name and description metadata for Navigator
entities is now part of the Managed & Custom Metadata Editor role. Users with that role or the Full Administrator role can add and update entity names and descriptions in the Navigator console.

Cloudera Navigator User Roles



Added information that audit filtering now allows a "not like" operator.

Filtering Audit Events


Added information on handling sensitive data that links to the Cloudera Manager log redaction details.
Sensitive Data


The documentation now includes the specific metadata removed during Navigator Metadata Server purge tasks.
What Metadata is Purged?


Kudu

Added new features and updates to Kudu administration:

You can now add data directories to an existing master or tablet server.
Kudu tablet servers are resilient to disk failures that occur on a disk storing data blocks.
The description of the workflow to migrate to multi-master cluster was improved with details and examples.
The description of the workflow to recover from a dead Kudu master was improved with details.


Kudu Administration


Specified how client applications connect to Kerberized Kudu servers.
Client
Authentication to Secure Kudu Clusters


Cloudera Altus
Added a description of public keys for cluster creation.
Creating a Cluster for AWS







Categories: Getting Started | New Features | Release Notes | What's New | All Categories



Impala Version and Download Information


CDH 5 Release Notes


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2021 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated May 20, 2021.












