June 10, 2022Cloudera Docs
June 10, 2022
Cloudera Operational Database (COD) 1.22 version supports HBase Store File Tracking, Multiple
  Availability zones on AWS, and CDP Control Planes for multiple regions.
COD now supports the Store File Tracking (SFT) as a limited availability feature
Store File Tracking (SFT) defines a separate, pluggable layer to handle storefile life cycle,
    and includes the FILE based built-in implementation that avoids internal file rename or move
    operations while managing the storefiles. This is a critical enablement to deploy HBase over S3
    object store, which is known for the lack of atomic renames. COD enables this feature by default
    for databases deployed on AWS with S3, to mitigate the aforementioned S3 limitation that could
    cause critical issues for HBase. For more information, see HBase Store File Tracking.

COD supports Multiple Availability Zones (Multi-AZ) on AWS
COD ensures high availability and fault tolerance using Multi-AZ deployments. A Multi-AZ
    deployment means that compute infrastructure for HBase’s master and region servers are
    distributed across multiple AZs ensuring that when a single availability zone has an outage,
    only a portion of Region Servers is impacted and clients automatically switch over to the
    remaining servers in the available AZs.
Multi-AZ for COD is currently supported only on Amazon Web Services (AWS) environments. For
    more information, see Multi-AZ deployment on COD.

COD supports CDP Control Planes for multiple regions
COD now supports CDP Control Plane for eu-1 (Germany) and ap-1 (Australia)
    regions. Certain countries may have regulatory requirements that limit or forbid specific types
    of data from being sent or stored outside of the country or region where an organization
    operates. For this reason Cloudera has introduced new regions in which the Control Plane can
    run. By choosing a region other than us-west-1, you can ensure that sensitive metadata (such as
    information about CDP users) does not leave its region or country of origin. For more
    information, see CDP Control Plane regions.


Parent topic: Older releases