July 10, 2021Cloudera Docs
July 10, 2021
Cloudera Operational Database (COD) 1.13 version offers multiple new features that includes
    disengaging autoadmin database function, runtime upgrade, copy tables between COD environments
    and many more.
COD supports HDFS for storage on Cloud Block Storage in addition to Cloud Object
        Storage on AWS & Azure


COD now supports HDFS for fast and consistent performance.
Cloud Object Storage has a high variance in latency, and sometimes the delay in
            accessing the data is high. The operational cost in managing such an operational
            database is expensive, as it reads millions of data per second. COD now deploys HDFS on
            Cloud Block Storage, which ensures that the performance characteristics are similar to
            on-prem. This feature simplifies the lift-and-shift efforts to the cloud.
This capability includes an updated update-database command in CDP
            CLI Beta to enable tuning of auto-scaling based on HDFS utilization.



COD promotes custom user tags to CDP CLI Beta
When you create a COD database, COD enables you to supply custom tags for launched
        hardwares while using CDP CLI Beta.

COD delivers utility to manually copy tables across Kerberos realms without cross-realm
        Kerberos trust
COD introduces a CldrCopyTable utility, which is Cloudera’s version of the upstream CopyTable utility. This utility is an extension of the COD replication plugin that enables you to copy data
        cross-realm. This utility enables you to close any replication gaps that might arise
        depending on how you start or stop replication.

COD streamlines on-prem replication plugins
When you create a COD database, COD automatically sets configuration properties for the
        Cloudera replication plugin so that on-prem clusters can replicate into COD databases. COD
        now automatically configures the OpDB replication plugin and reduces the time needed to move
        the application into production.


Parent topic: Older releases