February 10, 2022Cloudera Docs
February 10, 2022
Cloudera Operational Database (COD) 1.19 version supports Spark transactional tables using
  Apache OMID and is also bundled with the HBase version 2.4.6. Refer to the detailed section for
  more features.
COD through Phoenix-Spark connector supports Spark transactional tables using Apache
    OMID
COD supports Apache OMID transactional framework that allows Big Data applications to execute
    ACID transactions on top of Phoenix tables.
The transaction support in COD enables you to perform complex distributed transactions and run
    atomic database operations, meaning your database operations must either be completed or
    terminated. A transaction ensures adhering to the ACID properties.

COD is now bundled with the HBase version 2.4.6
COD is now bundled and shipped along with the HBase version 2.4.6 when the CDP Runtime version
    is 7.2.14.
For a smooth and better functionality, COD is now bundled with the HBase version 2.4.6. You
    need to upgrade the HBase client version for seamless connectivity.

COD supports custom table coprocessors
COD supports custom table coprocessors, which you can implement and extend from HBase
    coprocessors’ interfaces.
You can add table coprocessors so that HBase can run custom code on the server side against
    the stored data and filter local minimum or maximum value during ingestion without scanning the
    entire table. You can use built-in table coprocessors from the upstream HBase releases. For more
    information, see Working with custom table coprocessors.

COD supports RAZ integration from the Runtime version 7.2.11.0
COD supports RAZ integration from the Runtime version 7.2.11.0. You can grant fine-grained
    access to directories.
The Ranger Authorization Service (RAZ) is a fine grained authorization service for cloud
    storage. As a regular individual user or as an HBase user, you can limit the authorization
    levels in the cloud storage to a directory level. For more information, see COD integration with RAZ.

Storefile Tracking (SFT) is available as an optional feature delivered through the
    Cloudera Operational Database (COD) service
COD now supports the “Storefile Tracking” (SFT) as an optional feature in Runtime
    7.2.14.0.
Storefile Tracking (SFT) changes how HBase manages its files to avoid operations which are
    known to be suboptimal when using object stores. COD enables this feature for COD databases
    deployed on AWS which use S3 for HBase storage which will address performance issues known
    around flushes, compactions, and other HBase operations. For more information, see HBase Storefile Tracking.

COD allows to disable the Kerberos authentication temporarily for HBase clients
COD allows to disable the Kerberos authentication temporarily for HBase clients that run on
    Cloudera legacy products.
If your client applications are running on Cloudera legacy products, they usually do not have
    Kerberos authentication enabled. When you try to connect to any COD instance, the connection
    fails because the COD instances have Kerberos enabled, by default. Now, you can disable Kerberos
    authentication in your COD instances so that HBase or Phoenix clients can connect seamlessly.
    For more information, see Disabling Kerberos authentication for HBase clients.


Parent topic: Older releases