Known issuesCloudera Docs
Known issues
Learn about the known issues in Cloudera Operational Database (COD), the impact or changes to
  the functionality, and the workaround.
ODX-1603 (COD 1.22) : COD throws a "Node Failure" issue
Problem: COD reports "Node Failure" state whenever OMID service goes down and retains
    the state until the OMID service is restarted from Cloudera Manager (CM).
Workaround:
If you are using OMID, restart the OMID service through CM and wait for a few minutes until
      COD starts displaying Available again.
If you are not using OMID service and your COD status is not affected by the OMID service
      status, you can suppress the OMID alerts directly in the CM.


Technical Service Bulletins


TSB 2022-568: HBase normalizer must be disabled for Salted Phoenix
      tables
When Apache Phoenix (“Phoenix”) creates a salted table, it pre-splits the table according
      to the number of salt regions. These regions must always be kept separate, otherwise Phoenix
      does not work correctly.The HBase normalizer is not aware of this requirement, and in some
       cases the pre-split regions are merged automatically. This causes failure in
       Phoenix.The same requirement applies when merging regions of salted tables manually:
       regions containing different salt keys (the first byte of the rowkey) must never be merged.
       Note that either automatic or manual splitting of the regions for a salted table does
       not cause a problem. The problem only occurs when adjacent regions containing different salt
       keys are merged.

Upstream JIRA
PHOENIX-4906
Impact
Customers using the salted table feature of Phoenix.
Action required


Checking for affected tables:
Run the following query from phoenix-sqlline to find the salted
          tables:select TABLE_SCHEM,TABLE_NAME from system.catalog where salt_buckets>0;
From hbase shell run describe 'SCHEMA.TABLE' for each salted table,
          substituting the schema and table (for tables without schema, use just the table name) and
          look for {NORMALIZATION_ENABLED => 'true'} in the output.

If normalizer has been enabled on a salted Phoenix table, the HBase normalizer must be
        disabled manually. From HBase shell, run the following command for each salted Phoenix
        table:alter 'SCHEMA_NAME.TABLE_NAME', {NORMALIZATION_ENABLED => 'false'} 
(If the table is in the default schema, just use 'TABLE_NAME')


Knowledge article
For the latest update on this issue, see the corresponding Knowledge article: TSB 2022-568: Hbase normalizer must be disabled for Salted Phoenix tables
     




