Network File System (NFS)Cloudera Docs
Network File System (NFS)
A Network File System (NFS) is a protocol to access storage on a network that emulates
  accessing storage in a local file system. CML requires an NFS server for storing project files and
  folders, and the NFS export must be configured before you provision the first CML workspace in the
  cluster.
There are many different products or packages that can create an NFS in your private network. A
   Kubernetes cluster can host an internal NFS server, or an external NFS server can be installed on
   another cluster that is accessible by the private cloud cluster nodes. NFS storage is used only
   for storing project files and folders, and not for any other CML data, such as PostgreSQL
   database and livelog files.
CML does not support shared volumes, such as Portworx shared volumes, for storing project
   files. A read-write-once (RWO) persistent volume must be allocated to the internal NFS server
   (for example, NFS server provisioner) as the persistence layer. The NFS server uses the volume to
   dynamically provision read-write-many (RWX) NFS volumes for the CML clients.
An external NFS server option is currently the recommended option for Private Cloud production
   workloads. Not specifying an external NFS Server for your ML Workspace will use/require a
   deprecated internal NFS provisioner, which should only be used for small, proof-of-concept
   deployments. There are several options for setting up an internal NFS provisioner, described in
   the appendix. The Private Cloud Admin is responsible for setting up an NFS for use by your
   cluster.
noteSee CDP Private Cloud Data Services Installation Software Requirements for some
   information about installing NFS.

Related informationCDP Private Cloud Experiences Installation Software RequirementsNFS Options for Private CloudCloudera Machine Learning on Private Cloud requires a Network File System (NFS) server   for storing project files and folders. Internal Network File System on OCPLearn about backing up and uninstalling an internal NFS server on OpenShift   Container Platform. Internal Network File System on ECSOn ECS, NFS is part of the overall installation, and no additional setup steps are   required. Using an External NFS ServerYou can install an NFS server that is external to the cluster.