NFS Options for Private CloudCloudera Docs
NFS Options for Private Cloud
Cloudera Machine Learning on Private Cloud requires a Network File System (NFS) server
  for storing project files and folders. 
On ECS, NFS is part of the overall installation, and no additional setup steps are
   required.
You can use an NFS server that is external to the cluster, such as a NetApp Filer appliance. In
   this case, you must manually create a directory for each workspace. In this case, the NFS server
   must be configured before deploying the first CML workspace in the cluster. One important
   limitation is that CML does not support using shared volumes for storing project files. 
Storage provisioner change On OCP, CephFS is used as the underlying storage provisioner
   for any new internal workspace on PVC 1.5.1. A storage class named "ocs-storagecluster-cephfs"
   with csi driver set to "openshift-storage.cephfs.csi.ceph.com" must exist in the cluster for new
   internal workspaces to get provisioned. Each workspace will have separate 1 TB internal
   storage.
On ECS, any new internal workspace on 1.5.1 will use Longhorn as the underlying storage
   provisioner. A storage class named "longhorn" with csi driver set to "driver.longhorn.io" must
   exist in the cluster for new internal workspaces to get provisioned. Each workspace will have
   separate 1 TB internal storage.
 On either ECS or OCP, internal workspaces running on PVC 1.4.0/1.4.1 use NFS server
   provisioner as the storage provisioner. These workspaces when upgraded to 1.5.0 will continue to
   run with the same NFS server Provisioner. However, NFS server provisioner is now deprecated and
   is not supported in the 1.5.1 release. 

    Existing workspaces in 1.4.0/1.4.1 can be upgraded to 1.5.0
    from PVC UI. After this, you can do one of the following:
    
Migrate the 1.5.0 upgraded workspace from NFS server provisioner to Longhorn
      (ECS) / Cephfs (OCP) if you want to continue using the same workspace in PVC
      1.5.1 as well
 Create a new 1.5.0 workspace and migrate the existing workloads to that before  upgrading
     to the 1.5.1 release. noteThere is no change in the underlying storage of external NFS backed
      workspaces and these can be simply upgraded to 1.5.1.




Parent topic: Network File System (NFS)