Managing dashboard related site settingsCloudera Docs
Managing dashboard related site settings
Cloudera Data Visualization is highly configurable, with many site-wide settings. You
  can turn specific dashboard related features on and off and adjust various settings for visuals,
  dashboards, and snapshots using the Dashboards menu.
The Site Settings menu is only available
   to users with administrative privileges.

Click the Gear icon on the main navigation bar to open the
      Administration menu and select Site
     Settings.




The Site Settings interface opens on the Data
      menu.


Open the Dashboards menu from the left navigation and select one of
     the options available.








Visuals

You can enable various advanced options for visuals.




Enable the explore function
You can use the explore function in Cloudera Data Visualization to find the best
        visualization for your data request. It suggests new visual types and options based on the
        information you already use in existing visuals. For more information, see Exploring
          visual options.
To enable this function, select the Enable Explore option under Dashboards > Visuals.

Enable visual transitions
You can use the transitions function to animate visuals during loading and refresh
        operations. The visual types that use visual transitions include bars, lines, combo, area,
        scatter, grouped bar, histogram, sparklines, pie, packed bubbles, and correlation heat
        map.
To enable the transition function, select the Enable Visual
          Transitions option under Dashboards > Visuals.

Set the maximum count of trellises to be displayed before warning
To adjust the maximum count of trellises, select the appropriate value for Max
          Count Of Trellises To Be Displayed Before Warning under
          Visuals.

Set the maximum data results size for visuals and downloads
To adjust the maximum data results size, enter a value in the Maximum data
          results size for visuals and downloads (in MB) text box under Dashboards > Visuals.
importantImpala, Hive, SQLITE connection CSV/Excel downloads are not limited by
        this size.

Set the maximum data rows for visuals
As a site administrator, you can provide an upper limit for the number of rows rendered in
        a visual request. Sometimes an inexperienced or malicious user can create a visual
        requesting billions of rows. This may result in excessive resource consumption at the server
        level and the result might be too large to render in the client browser.
To avoid this scenario and provide an upper limit on the number of rows rendered, enter a
        value in the Maximum data rows for visuals text box under Dashboards > Visuals.

Download maximum data rows in visuals
Sometimes an inexperienced or malicious user can create a visual requesting billions of
        rows. This may result in excessive resource consumption at the server level and too large to
        render in the client browser. To avoid this, you as a site administrator can provide an
        upper limit on the number of rows rendered in a visual request.
To set the maximum data row value, follow these steps:

Click the Gear icon on the main navigation bar to open the
            Administration menu and select Site
            Settings.
Under Visuals, enter a value in the Maximum data rows
            for visuals text box.

At the individual visual level, the setting in the Maximum number of rows to
          fetch option in the Data menu of the Visual
          Designer overrides this default behaviour.
At the site level, the setting in the Maximum data rows for visuals
        option overrides the setting in the Maximum number of rows to fetch
        option.

Set the maximum width of canvas visuals
Cloudera recommends that you designate a reasonable maximum width for canvas visuals
        considering performance reasons. Overly wide visuals that display streaming data may cause
        the Internet browser to crash.
To set the maximum width value, enter a value in the Maximum width of canvas
          visuals text box under Dashboards > Visuals.

Enable custom styles
As a site administrator, you can enable custom styling to set the appearance of visuals,
        dashboards, filters, and applications through CSS and JS scripting. For more information on
        using custom styles, see Adding custom styles to visuals.noteYou must also have the Manage custom styles
          permission to use CSS and JS customizations.
To enable the feature, check the Enable Custom Styles option under Dashboards > Visuals.

Show descendant dashboard information
As a site administrator, you can choose to show descendant dashboard information on the
          Visuals page.
To enable the feature, check the Show Descendant Dashboard information on the
          Visuals page option under Dashboards > Visuals.

Enable legacy crosstab visual
As a site administrator, you can make the legacy crosstab visual type available to
        users.
To enable the feature, check the Enable legacy crosstab visual
        option under Dashboards > Visuals.

Enable the search visual
You can only add the search visual to the Visual Catalog if  Search is enable under
          Site Configuration. Once you have enabled search, the two
        associated options are also automatically enabled:
Enable Search Visual
You can find it under Dashboards > Visuals
Enable Search in Menu Bar
You can find it under Site Configuration.


Set CSV or Excel download as default
In Cloudera Data Visualization, you can download data in a visual in CSV or Excel
        format.
To make this download option default, check the Enable "Download as CSV/Excel"
          by default option under Dashboards > Visuals.

Download the maximum number of rows in CSV files
Sometimes an inexperienced or malicious user can download a large number of rows. This may
        result in excessive resource consumption at the server level.
To avoid this scenario and provide an upper limit on the number of rows downloaded in a CSV
        file, enter a value in the Maximum data rows for download requests
        text box under Dashboards > Visuals.
importantThis setting overrides the setting specified by
        the user in the Number of rows downloaded during CSV export and Detailed
          Data option in the Data menu of the Visual Designer.
        For more information, see Changing number of rows to download.

note
You must save your changes and restart the CDV application for the changed site
            settings to take effect.





Snapshots
The group of settings under Dashboards > Snapshots allows you to take snapshots of your actual visuals and dashboards, which you can
    then download as PNG files. It also replaces the standard thumbnails that appear in the
      Visuals interface with miniaturized versions of the visual or
    dashboard. This customization makes it very easy to locate the visuals and dashboards you want
    to use.

You can perform the following steps:

Check Enable snapshots (required for thumbnails, email, and image
            downloads).
Check Enable "Download as Image/PDF" by default
Set the IP/Hostname to use to connect back to the server. You can
          use the default value or change it to connect to a different server.





note
You must save your changes and restart the CDV application for the changed site
            settings to take effect.





Config
As a site administrator, you can perform the following dashboard configuration
        actions:
Set the default width of dashboards
To specify a width for dashboards, enter the measurement for Default
                    Dashboard Width in pixels. noteIf you clear
                    the field, all dashboards automatically resize to the full width of the browser
                    window.

Set a warning that loading dashboards takes too long in view mode 
To set the warning, check the Show "This dashboard is still loading data"
                    in view mode option under Dashboards > Config.

Enable URL shortener
As a site administrator, you can make the URL shortener functionality
                available to users.
To enable the feature, check the Enable URL shortener option
                under Dashboards > Config.






note
You must save your changes and restart the CDV application for the changed
                        site settings to take effect.





Interactive Map
 
Enable API keys for interactive map visuals
Your organization must obtain its own credentials for Google Maps, either Google
          API Id or Google Client Id. To obtain Google Maps keys,
        see Google Maps APIs. 
For the Mapbox interface, your organization must get a Mapbox Token
        and the Mapbox Style ID, specified for each visual in the Settings
        menu. Cloudera Data Visualization already has a default mapbox token. To obtain new Mapbox
        tokens and Style IDs, see Mapbox. 

Specify an atlas mapbox server
You can use a Mapbox server or specify an Atlas Mapbox server at the site level to run Mapbox
        APIs on your own infrastructure, whether on your own private cloud or on-premises.
To specify an Atlas Mapbox server at the site level, Enter the IP address or hostname of
        the Atlas Mapbox server in the IP/Hostname of Atlas Mapbox Server
          (optional) text box.
noteIn an interactive map visual, the Atlas Mapbox server for visual
        setting under the Settings > Map Server menu, overrides the
          IP/Hostname of Atlas Mapbox Server (optional) setting defined under
          Site Settings.






note
You must save your changes and restart the CDV application for the changed site
            settings to take effect.




