Encryption supportCloudera Docs
Encryption support
The Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) implements both in-flight and at-rest encryption for
    data. In-flight encryption is enabled using TLS. In CDP Private Cloud, at-rest encryption is
    enabled in HDFS through integration with a Key Management Server (KMS) and a Key Trustee Server
    (KTS). In some cases, a Hardware Security Module (HSM) might be integrated with the KTS to
    enhance key storage functionality. In CDP Public Cloud, server-side encryption (SSE) is
    used.
Encryption key access high availability
CDP utilizes the Ranger KMS to manage key requests between a cluster and the
        keystore. CDP supports using either a Key Trustee Server or database to act as the keystore. 
To enable fault tolerant access between the cluster and the keystore, you should
        enable Ranger KMS in high availability mode. If utilizing a RangerKMS with database as the
        keystore, you must also implement appropriate database-level high availability to ensure
        keys are accessible. If utilizing the Ranger KMS with KTS, you must also implement the KTS
        service as a highly available pair. Implementing Ranger KMS with KTS is the preferred method
        for configuring HDFS Transparent Data Encryption.
KTS high availability applies to read operations only. If either KTS fails, the
        client automatically retries fetching keys from the functioning server. New write operations
        (for example, creating new encryption keys) are not allowed unless both KTS are
        operational.
Encryption key material is intended to be implemented on a per-cluster basis.
        Replication of keys across clusters is not supported. When replicating encrypted data
        between clusters, Replication Manager re-encrypts data in-flight using appropriate keys from
        the destination cluster.
If utilizing an HSM, ensure that the HSM is implemented in a highly available
        way. This is dependent upon each HSM manufacturer.
For information about Ranger KMS and KTS, see Configuring Ranger KMS for High Availability and
          Setting up Key Trustee Server High Availability.
For information about setting up robust data protection, security, and governance for
        individual clusters, see CDP Security Reference Architecture.

Encryption key backup and recovery
In case of service failure causing keystore corruption, you should regularly back up the
        keystore. For Ranger KMS with database, you need to back up the underlying keystore
        database. For Ranger KMS with KTS, you must back up the KTS databases and configuration
        files. You must also back up client configuration files and keys for KTS clients, such as
        Navigator Encrypt.
noteCloudera recommends regularly backing up Ranger KMS keystore
        databases and Key Trustee Server databases and configuration files. Because these backups
        contain encryption keys and encrypted deposits, you must ensure that your backup repository
        is as secure as the Key Trustee Server.For information about backing up encryption key,
          see Backing Up Key Trustee Server and Clients and
            Restoring Navigator Key Trustee Server.


Parent topic: Disaster recovery checklist and resources