Disaster recovery checklist and resourcesCloudera Docs
Disaster recovery checklist and resources
A suitable disaster recovery plan consists of multiple items. These include high
    availability mitigations, backup and recovery, as well as data and workload
    replication.
A CDP environment consists of several services, components, and data storage
      mechanisms and dependencies. Some of these live outside the envelope of the cluster, such as
      the database systems used by services like Hue and Hive. When considering if and how to
      replicate components within the entire stack, take into account the capabilities of the
      service. In some cases, you may want to use the native replication capability within the
      service, such as HBase. In other cases, you may need to use an external tool, such as
      Replication Manager to coordinate the movement of data between HDFS on your disaster recovery
      clusters.

WorkloadA workload or application consists of the services, data, schema and business metadata,   security and governance policy, and supporting workload scripts and workflows that allow a   business application to run correctly. DataData is maintained on a file system or object store service such as HDFS or Ozone. Data     may also exist in higher level abstractions maintained by a service such as HBase or Solr, which     create their own file formats on HDFS. In other cases, for services such as Kudu or Kafka, the     data is placed and maintained directly on a local disk.MetadataMetadata refers to the schema and data required for correctly running Hadoop SQL     workloads on top of Hive, Impala, or SparkSQL. Additionally, it also refers to business metadata     created within Atlas to assign additional context to datasets. Hive, Impala, and SparkSQL share     a metadata catalog for databases, tables, and schemas. When replicating or backing up data     managed by these services, you need to consider both the data and catalog metadata     together.Streaming and event processingThe Stream Replication Engine is a next generation multi-cluster and cross data center   replication engine for Kafka clusters.Security and governanceCDP implements security and governance using Kerberos for authentication, Apache Ranger   for policy enforcement and auditing, and Apache Atlas for metadata tagging and   lineage.Encryption supportThe Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) implements both in-flight and at-rest encryption for     data. In-flight encryption is enabled using TLS. In CDP Private Cloud, at-rest encryption is     enabled in HDFS through integration with a Key Management Server (KMS) and a Key Trustee Server     (KTS). In some cases, a Hardware Security Module (HSM) might be integrated with the KTS to     enhance key storage functionality. In CDP Public Cloud, server-side encryption (SSE) is     used.Operations and managementYou can configure Hue in a high availability mode. Cloudera Manager does not currently     support high availability mode within CDP. Therefore, create a Cloudera Manager instance for     each side of a disaster recovery cluster pair and periodically back up the configuration     details, the Cloudera Manager database, and associated metric data stored on the Cloudera     Manager server.