Operations and managementCloudera Docs
Operations and management
You can configure Hue in a high availability mode. Cloudera Manager does not currently
    support high availability mode within CDP. Therefore, create a Cloudera Manager instance for
    each side of a disaster recovery cluster pair and periodically back up the configuration
    details, the Cloudera Manager database, and associated metric data stored on the Cloudera
    Manager server.
Hue
Hue can be configured in a high availability (HA) mode by using multiple Hue
        servers and a load balancer in front of the Hue service. Hue configuration and state can be
        maintained in an external RDBMS which provides its own backup and high availability. 
For information about enabling high availability in Hue, see Configuring High Availability for Hue.
Hue utilizes a database for storing internal metadata about users interacting
        with various services within the Cloudera Data Platform. This database can be backed up
        using Hue’s built-in export functions. This creates a point-in-time backup that can be
        stored offline.
For information about backing up and restoring Hue data, see Backing up the Hue database.
Hue has no built-in replication capabilities. Periodically restoring a
        point-in-time backup is sufficient in many cases.

Cloudera Manager
Cloudera recommends creating a Cloudera Manager  instance for each side of a
        disaster recovery cluster pair. While a single Cloudera Manager instance can manage multiple
        clusters, in the event of a disaster, your Cloudera Manager might be on the wrong side of
        the incident, leaving you without the ability to manage anything post-failover. 
Because of this, keeping cluster configurations in sync between two Cloudera
        Manager instances can be a challenge. Adopting an appropriate change management and update
        procedure between the two clusters may be required. The
          cloudera-playbook Ansible framework can help normalize this by
        letting you apply a common set of configurations to individual clusters. See the
          cloudera-playbook details in the Cloudera Labs Github repository
        for more information about using Ansible.
For more information about the Cloudera Playbook Ansible Framework, see  Cloudera-playbook on Cloudera Labs and Automating CDP Private Cloud Installations with
          Ansible.
Cloudera Manager does not currently support high availability mode within CDP.
        Because of this, it is important to periodically back up configuration details, the Cloudera
        Manager database, and associated metric data stored on the Cloudera Manager server. 
For information about Cloudera Manager API, see Backing up the Cloudera Manager Configuration and
          Restoring the Cloudera Manager Configuration.

RDBMS for Services
In most cases, the RDBMS backing a particular service needs to be treated as a tightly
            coupled component of the cluster it is attached to. Individual services might maintain
            cluster-specific information within the databases that make it difficult to safely
            replicate the databases directly. As an example, the Hive Metastore database might refer
            to fully qualified HDFS paths that only make sense for one half of the disaster recovery
            pair. This would require you to use Hive-level replication and export mechanisms to
            transfer and transform Hive Schema details from one side of the disaster recovery pair
            to the other.
System Configuration
Operating system and infrastructure level configuration that sit outside the envelope
            of the Cloudera Data Platform products should be managed through a common configuration
            management infrastructure such as Ansible. This ensures configuration consistency and
            enforcement between your disaster recovery pair. It is highly recommended to keep your
            disaster recovery clusters as closely configured as possible from an architecture and
            design perspective. 



Parent topic: Disaster recovery checklist and resources