File systemsCloudera Docs
File systems
CDP has multiple deployment methodologies in both public cloud and on-premises. These
    form factors have multiple, interrelated mechanisms for storing data at various organizational
    levels within the cluster. Each layer has specific requirements related to how and whether data
    should be replicated. These layers include local file storage on individual nodes, HDFS, and
    Ozone. 
HDFS
HDFS must be configured for high availability (HA). Three components that enable
        high availability of data on HDFS are Namenode, Journalnode, and Datanode services. Multiple
        cluster leader nodes run both Namenode and JournalNode services to maintain the filesystem
        metadata. Datanode services run on each worker node, maintaining the individual data blocks
        and providing data availability through block replication. 
For information about enabling high availability on HDFS, see Enabling HA on HDFS with Cloudera Manager.
HDFS utilizes the DistCp tool to replicate data between clusters. CDP utilizes Replication
        Manager within Cloudera Manager to manage the replication policies for a given directory
        structure in HDFS. Replication Manager utilizes a version of the DistCp tool specific for
        Cloudera, to integrate with CDP cluster management. Replication policies are triggered on a
        periodic basis, providing an asynchronous replication path for data on HDFS. HDFS supports
        replicating encrypted data safely across clusters. HDFS Transparent Data Encryption must be
        enabled for encrypting data at rest.
For information about utilizing Replication Manager for HDFS data replication, see HDFS Replication

Ozone
Ozone must be configured for high availability. Three components that enable high
        availability for data on Ozone are Ozone Manager, Storage Container Manager, and Datanode
        services. The Ozone Manager and Storage Container Manager run on multiple leader nodes to
        maintain availability of the object store metadata and background operational tasks.
        Datanode services run on each Ozone worker node, maintaining individual data blocks and
        providing data availability through replication. 
For information about enabling high availability in Ozone, see Storage Container Manager HA and Ozone Manager HA.
Backup can be achieved by using DistCp to replicate data between separate clusters.
        Currently, this is facilitated through direct use of the DistCp tool and manually scheduling
        these through an orchestration tool like Oozie.

Local file system
You may have local file system synchronization requirements between the two disaster
        recovery clusters. These areas are outside the scope of this document and CDP replication
        capabilities do not cover this use case.


Parent topic: Data