MetadataCloudera Docs
Metadata
Metadata refers to the schema and data required for correctly running Hadoop SQL
    workloads on top of Hive, Impala, or SparkSQL. Additionally, it also refers to business metadata
    created within Atlas to assign additional context to datasets. Hive, Impala, and SparkSQL share
    a metadata catalog for databases, tables, and schemas. When replicating or backing up data
    managed by these services, you need to consider both the data and catalog metadata
    together.
Hive Metastore
The Hive Metastore (HMS) manages the metadata related to databases and table
        schema. Additionally, it tracks where the underlying table data resides on HDFS or
        Ozone.
HMS should be deployed in a High Available (HA) mode by configuring an additional HMS
        instance. This provides failover capabilities within a cluster to a secondary Hive Metastore
        if your primary instance goes down. 
For more information about the Hive Metastore, see Configuring the HMS for High Availability.
Metadata within the HMS is generally co-replicated with the underlying Hive and
        Impala data when using Replication Manager. This activity is configurable using the
        Replication Manager replication policy associated with the Hive data set. 

Atlas
Atlas should be deployed in High Availability mode by configuring additional
        Atlas service instances. This provides failover capabilities within a cluster if the primary
        instance goes down.
Atlas depends upon HBase, Kafka, and the Infrastructure Solr. When enabling Atlas
        HA, these services must also be enabled for high availability support.
For more information about Atlas High Availability, see About Atlas High Availability.
Business metadata generated and stored within Atlas is used for data tagging and
        lineage. This information is not currently synchronized between disaster recovery
        environments. Should this be required, the Atlas metadata can be exported from one
        environment and imported to the other using Atlas REST API calls. 


Parent topic: Disaster recovery checklist and resources