Configuring Cross-Origin Support for YARN UIs and REST APIsCloudera Docs
Configuring Cross-Origin Support for YARN UIs and REST APIs
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is enabled by default on YARN so that the
        corresponding services accept cross-origin requests from only selected domains. Enabling
        CORS also helps the YARN UI fetch data endpoints from the browser.

CORS is enabled at cluster level and then on individual components such as YARN. If
                you want to set other values than the default ones, use safety valves in Cloudera
                Manager to configure the CORS configuration properties.


In the Cloudera Manager, select the YARN service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Search for core-site.xml.

Find YARN Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                        core-site.xml.

Click on the plus icon to add and configure the following properties :



Property
Default value
Description



hadoop.http.cross-origin.allowed-origins
regex:.*[.]subdomain[.]example[.]com(;\d+)?.*

Comma-separated list of origins allowed for cross-origin
                                            support. 
The default value is *. Mention only specific origins so
                                            that the services do not accept all the cross-origin
                                            requests. 



hadoop.http.cross-origin.allowed-methods
GET, PUT, POST, OPTIONS, HEAD,
                                        DELETE

Comma-separated list of methods allowed for cross-origin
                                            support.



hadoop.http.cross-origin.allowed-headers
X-Requested-With, Content-Type, Accept, Origin,
                                            WWW-Authenticate, Accept-Encoding,
                                            Transfer-Encoding

Comma-separated list of headers allowed for cross-origin
                                            support.



hadoop.http.cross-origin.max-age
180

Number of seconds until when a preflight request can be
                                            cached.





Click Save Changes.

In the Cloudera Manager, select the YARN service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Search for yarn-site.xml.

Find the YARN Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve)
                        for yarn-site.xml.

Click on the plus icon to add and configure the cross-origin.enabled
                    properties:



Property
Default value
Description



yarn.nodemanager.webapp.cross-origin.enabled
true

Enable cross-origin support for the NodeManager.



yarn.resourcemanager.webapp.cross-origin.enabled
true

Enable cross-origin support for the ResourceManager.



yarn.timeline-service.http-cross-origin.enabled
true

Enable cross-origin support for the timeline service.



noteThe value of the
                            hadoop.http.cross-origin.allowed-origins property
                        in yarn-site.xml overrides the value of the same property
                        in core-site.xml. You can configure the value of this
                        property to allow access to specific domains; for example,
                            regex:.*[.]hwx[.]site(:\d*)?.


Click Save Changes.

Restart the HDFS and YARN services.


