Configuring YARN Security for Long-Running ApplicationsCloudera Docs
Configuring YARN Security for Long-Running Applications
Long-running applications need additional configuration since the default settings only allow the hdfs user's delegation tokens a maximum lifetime of 7 days which is not always sufficient.

Long-running applications such as Spark Streaming jobs will need additional
                configuration since the default settings only allow the
                    hdfs user's delegation tokens a maximum lifetime of
                7 days which is not always sufficient.
You can work around this by configuring the ResourceManager as a proxy user for the
                corresponding HDFS NameNode so that the ResourceManager can request new tokens when
                the existing ones are past their maximum lifetime. YARN will then be able to
                continue performing localization and log-aggregation on behalf of the
                    hdfs user.


In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Search for yarn-site.xml.

Find the ResourceManager Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                        Valve) for yarn-site.xml.

Click the plus icon and add the followoing:


Name:
                                yarn.resourcemanager.proxy-user-privileges.enabled
Value: true



Click Save Changes.

Go back to the home page by clicking the Cloudera Manager logo.

Select the HDFS service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Search for core-site.xml.

Find the Cluster-wide Advances Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve)
                        for core-site.xml.

Click the plus icon and add the following: 


Name: hadoop.proxyuser.yarn.hosts
Value: *



Click the plus icon again and add the following: 


Name:
                                hadoop.proxyuser.yarn.groups
Value: *



Click Save Changes.

Click the Stale Service Restart icon that is next to the service
                    to invoke the cluster restart wizard.

Click Restart Stale Services.

Select Re-deploy client configuration.

Click Restart Now.


