Configuring TLS/SSL for HDFSCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL for HDFS
Enabling TLS/SSL on HDFS is required before it can be enabled on YARN.

Enabling TLS/SSL on HDFS is required before it can be enabled on YARN.
Cloudera recommends you enable web UI authentication for the HDFS service. Web UI
                authentication uses SPNEGO. After enabling this, you cannot access the Hadoop web
                consoles without a valid Kerberos ticket and proper client-side configuration.


In Cloudera Manager, select the HDFS service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Search for TLS/SSL.

Find and edit the following properties according to you cluster
                    configuration:



Property
Description



Hadoop TLS/SSL Server Keystore File
                                        Location
Path to the keystore file containing the server
                                        certificate and private key.


Hadoop TLS/SSL Server Keystore File
                                        Password
Password for the server keystore file.


Hadoop TLS/SSL Server Keystore Key
                                        Password
Password that protects the private key contained in the
                                        server keystore.



If you are not using the default trustore, do the following:
Configure TLS/SSL client trustore properties.

importantThe HDFS properties below define a cluster-wide default
                        truststore that can be overridden by YARN.


Property
Description



Cluster-Wide Default TLS/SSL Client Truststore
                                            Location 
Path to the client truststore file. This truststore
                                        contains certificates of trusted servers, or of Certificate
                                        Authorities trusted to identify servers.


Cluster-Wide Default TLS/SSL Client Truststore
                                            Password
Password for the client truststore file.



If you want to enable web UI authentication for the HDFS service, do the
                following: 
Search for web consoles.

Find the Enable Authentication for HTTP Web-Consoles
                    property.

Check the property to enable web UI authentication. 

noteThis is effective only if security is enabled for the HDFS service.


Click Save Changes.

Configure TLS/SSL for YARN.


Related informationConfiguring TLS/SSL for YARNParent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL for Core Hadoop Services