Application ACL evaluationCloudera Docs
Application ACL evaluation
The better you understand how YARN ACLs are evaluated, the more prepared you will be to
  define and configure the various YARN ACLs available to you.
For example, if you enable user access in Administrator ACLs, then you must
   be aware that user may have access to/see sensitive data, and should plan accordingly. So if you
   are the administrator for an entire cluster, you also have access to the logs for running
   applications, which means you can view sensitive information in those logs associated with
   running the application.

Best Practice: A best practice for securing an environment is
   to set the YARN Admin ACL to include a limited set of users and or groups.
The following diagram shows the evaluation flow for Application ACLs:
Figure 1. Application ACL Evaluation Flow

The following diagram shows a sample queue structure, starting with leaf queues on the bottom,
   up to root queue at the top: Figure 2. Queue Structure


Example: Stopping an application in the "Production" queue
Provide the privilege to a user to stop an application in a specific queue.
For this Application ACL evaluation flow example, assume the following for
     application_1536220066338_0001 running in the
    queue "Production":
Application owner: John
"Datascience" queue administrator: Jane
YARN cluster administrator: Bob

In this use case, John attempts to stop the application, which is allowed
    because he is the application owner.
Working as the queue administrator, Jane attempts to stop a job in the
    queue "Production", which she can do as the queue administrator of the parent queue.
Bob is the YARN cluster administrator and he is also listed as a user in
    the Admin ACL. He attempts to stop the job for which he is not the owner, but because he is the
    YARN cluster administrator, he can stop the job.

Example: Moving the application and viewing the log in the "Test" queue
Provide the privileges to a user to move application between queues and to view a log in
    a specific queue. 
For this Application ACL evaluation flow example, assume the following for
     application_1536220066338_0002 running in the
     queue "Test":
Application owner: John
"Marketing" and "Dev" queue administrator: Jane
Jane has log view rights via the mapreduce.job.acl-view-job ACL
YARN cluster administrator: Bob


In this use case, John attempts to view the logs for his job, which is
     allowed because he is the application owner.
Jane attempts to access application_1536220066338_0002 in the queue "Test" to move the application to the
    "Marketing" queue. She is denied access to the "Test" queue via the queue ACLs–so she cannot
    submit to or administer the queue "Test". She is also unable to stop a job running in queue
    "Test". She then attempts to access the logs for application_1536220066338_0002 and is allowed access via the mapreduce.job.acl-view-job ACL.
Bob attempts to access application_1536220066338_0002 in the queue "Test" to move the application to the
     "Marketing" queue. As the YARN cluster administrator, he has access to all queues and can move
     the application.notePermissions on the log files are also set at the
      filesystem level and are enforced by the filesystem: the filesystem can block you from accessing
      the file, which means that you can not open/read the file to check the ACLs that are contained
      in the file.



Parent topic: Application ACLs