Installing CSP Community EditionCloudera Docs
Installing CSP Community Edition
You need to access the Downloads Page of Cloudera Stream Processing (CSP) to download
        the Community Edition version of CSP. After receiving the Compose file of CSP Community
        Edition, you need to create a composed version of the images and run CSP using Docker. The
        user interface of Streams Messaging Manager, Schema Registry and Streaming SQL Builder will
        be available using a local host.


For Mac/Windows users, make sure that you have Docker Desktop on your
                        computer.You can download Docker Desktop from the Docker product page.
Make sure that you have set the minimum memory and CPU for Docker. For more
                    information, see the System Prerequisites section.You
                        can set the minimum memory and CPU requirements at Preferences  >  Resources after starting Docker Desktop. In case you change the default
                        settings, you can save the changes with Apply and
                            Restart.
CSP Community Edition is installed with Docker Compose, which has two major versions. V1
          and V2. The following steps instruct you to the use docker-compose
          command. This command invokes Docker Compose V1. If the version of Docker Desktop you
          installed includes Docker Compose V2, you can choose to install with Docker Compose V2
          instead using the docker compose command. 
If you choose to use Docker Compose V1, the delimiter used in the prefix and suffix
              of your container names will be an underscore (_).
If you choose to use Docker Compose V2, the delimiter used in the prefix and suffix
              of your container names will be a hyphen (-).
In addition, if you enabled Docker Desktop
               > Preferences > General > Use
              Docker Compose V2, all docker-compose
          commands are aliased to docker compose. This means that a hyphen will be
          used as the prefix and suffix delimiter even if you use the
            docker-compose command (Compose V1) to install CSP Community Edition. 
If you have used the Community Edition of Cloudera Streaming Analytics before,
                    make sure to remove the previously built containers and volumes to avoid
                        errors.
To remove specific volumes and containers locally from
                            Docker:docker-compose down
docker rm -f $(docker ps -a -q | grep ssb)
docker volume rm $(docker volume ls -q | grep ssb)




Access the Downloads Page of CSP Community
                        Edition.

Download the docker-compose.yml file of CSP Community
                    Edition.

Create a folder named cspce, and move the downloaded Community
                    Edition docker-compose.yml file there.

Open a terminal session, and access the cspce directory.

Run the following command:

docker-compose up -d
tipWhen starting the containers, you can increase the number of
                        Flink TaskManager containers to 2 to have more resources
                        when running SSB. The number of TaskManagers define how many Flink jobs you
                        can run. In case you notice any resource or performance issues, it is
                        recommended to scale the number of Flink
                        TaskManagers.docker-compose up -d --scale flink-taskmanager=2


The Docker Compose process starts to build the containers
            locally. It can take time to start the Community Edition for the first time or when
            there are changes to the Docker images. When you do not receive any new message in the
            terminal window for a while, it means that the Community Edition is ready to be
            used.



After successfully installing the CSP Community Edition, access the User
                        Interface (UI) of the components from your browser:

Schema Registry
Streams Messaging Manager
Streaming SQL Builder




http://localhost:7788


http://localhost:9991


http://localhost:18121
Username: admin
Password: admin

You can also create a new account.





When you finished using the CSP Community Edition, you can shut down the
                        services in a terminal session using the docker compose
                            down command.




