Cloudera Search and CDPCloudera Docs
Cloudera Search and CDP
Discover how Search fits into Cloudera's Data Platform offering.
Cloudera Search fits into the broader set of solutions available for
        analyzing information in large data sets. Cloudera Data Platform (CDP)
        provides both the means and the tools to store the data and run queries.
        You can explore data through:
MapReduce or Spark jobs
Impala queries
Cloudera Search queries

CDP provides storage for and access to large data sets by using
        MapReduce jobs, but creating these jobs requires technical knowledge,
        and each job can take minutes or more to run. The longer run times
        associated with MapReduce jobs can interrupt the process of exploring
        data.
To provide more immediate queries and responses and to eliminate the
        need to write MapReduce applications, you can use Apache Impala. Impala
        returns results in seconds instead of minutes.
Although Impala is a fast, powerful application, it uses SQL-based
        querying syntax. Using Impala can be challenging for users who are not
        familiar with SQL. If you do not know SQL, you can use Cloudera Search.
        Although Impala, Apache Hive, and Apache Pig all require a structure
        that is applied at query time, Search supports free-text search on any
        data or fields you have indexed.
How Search uses existing infrastructure
Any data already in a CDP deployment can be indexed and made available
        for query by Cloudera Search. For data that is not stored in CDP,
        Cloudera Search provides tools for loading data into the existing
        infrastructure, and for indexing data as it is moved to HDFS or written
        to Apache HBase.
By leveraging existing infrastructure, Cloudera Search eliminates the
        need to create new, redundant structures. In addition, Cloudera Search
        uses services provided by CDP and Cloudera Manager in a way that does
        not interfere with other tasks running in the same environment. This
        way, you can reuse existing infrastructure without the cost and problems
        associated with running multiple services in the same set of
        systems.


