Using YARN queues with autoscalingCloudera Docs
Using YARN queues with autoscaling
Beyond the regular considerations to keep in mind while configuring YARN queues, a few
    additional aspects need to be considered, and some additional YARN configuration parameters are
    required.
Using a single queue for the entire YARN cluster
Nothing specific is required when YARN is configured with a single queue
        only.

Using multiple queues
Workloads executing in a queue will result in a scaling operation within the
        bounds of the resources allocated to the specific queue.
There are manual steps that are required on the YARN side to configure multiple
        queues for autoscaling. The same set of steps are also required before queue configuration
        is changed:

Configure Resource Manager for queue-based autoscaling. Configuring Resource Manager
          requires setting the yarn.resourcemanager.autoscaling.plugin-type
          property to the value fine in Cloudera Manager.
User-limit-factor and other queue configuration should be tuned as
          usual.

noteIf all of the queues in the system are allowed to use the maximum available resources in
        the cluster, 'percentage' mode can be used, by setting the max-capacity for each queue to
        100%. The following steps are NOT required if using percentage mode, but are required
        otherwise: 

Queue configuration should use `Absolute` values instead of percentages.
The `max-capacity` for `memory`, and optionally `cores` for a cluster should correspond
          to the total value available to YARN when scaled up to the configured `target
          maximum`.
The `maximum capacity` for a queue should be configured to be less than or equal to the
          `maximum-capacity` for the entire cluster.

Instructions for these manual steps are in the following topic, Configuring multiple
          YARN queues for autoscaling.


Configuring multiple YARN queues for autoscalingManual steps are required to configure multiple YARN queues for load-based     autoscaling.Parent topic: Autoscaling clusters