Configuring autoscalingCloudera Docs
Configuring autoscaling
To configure autoscaling, add a load-based or schedule-based policy to a cluster and
    define the policy parameters.
If you are configuring a load-based autoscaling policy, you must
      set the YARN Node Decommission Timeout property to 30 seconds. Configure the following
      property in Cloudera Manager:
        yarn_resourcemanager_nodemanager_graceful_decommission_timeout_secs

From the CDP Management Console, click Data Hub Clusters and
          then select the cluster that you want to add an autoscaling policy to. You can add
          autoscaling policies to clusters after they have been created, not during the cluster
          creation process.From the cluster details page, select the Autoscale tab and
          then click the slider button to enable autoscaling. Autoscaling is disabled by default.
        Click Add Autoscale Policy and select
            Load-Based or Schedule-Based.Define the policy parameters.
For load-based scaling:


Parameter
Description

Name
Enter a unique name for the policy.

Hostgroup
Select the host group that you want to scale. The list of available host
                    groups is determined by which host groups include services that can be
                    scaled.

Target
Enter a minimum and maximum number of nodes for the policy. The maximum
                    number of nodes determines how many instances are provisioned, but these
                    instances are suspended and resumed as the workload demand requires. The policy
                    will not provision instances beyond the maximum range of nodes that you define,
                    regardless of the demand on the cluster.


For schedule-based scaling:


Parameter
Description

Schedule Name
Enter a unique name for the schedule.

Hostgroup
Select the host group that you want to scale. The list of available host
                    groups is determined by which host groups include services that can be
                    scaled.

Target Node Count
Enter the number of nodes that you want to upscale or downscale the host
                    group to.

Repeat
Currently, only repeating schedules are supported.

CRON Expression
Enter a CRON expression string to define the details of the schedule that
                    you want to create.

Time Zone
Select the appropriate timezone on which to base the CRON
                    expression.


Click Add. The policy appears under Auto Scaling on the
            Provision Data Hub page.

Parent topic: Autoscaling clusters