Performing a Data Hub service pack upgradeCloudera Docs
Performing a Data Hub service pack upgrade
A service pack upgrade can be conducted on a single Data Hub cluster in an
    environment, or on multiple Data Hub clusters.
Complete the steps for each Data Hub cluster that you are
          upgrading.Required role:
DatahubAdmin or Owner over the Data Hub

In the left-hand menu, click Data Hubs and then select the Data
          Hub to upgrade.Scroll to the bottom of the Data Hub details page and select the
            Upgrade tab.From the drop-down menu, select the Target Runtime
          Version.


Click Validate and Prepare to check for any configuration issues and begin
          the Cloudera Rutime parcel download and distribution. Using the validate and prepare
          option does not require downtime and makes the maintenance window for an upgrade shorter.
          Validate and prepare also does not make any changes to your cluster and can be run
          independently of the upgrade itself. Although you can begin the upgrade without first
          running the validate and prepare option, using it will make the process smoother and the
          downtime shorter.Click Upgrade.Monitor the upgrade progress using the Data Hub Event
            History tab.If the upgrade fails, check the Troubleshooting upgrade section and
          re-try the upgrade.If the upgrade is successful, you can re-enable autoscaling on the cluster if
          desired.If your cluster contains the Oozie service, after the service pack upgrade is
          complete, re-install the Oozie shared libraries and YARN MapReduce Framework JARs.
Navigate to the cluster’s Oozie service in CM and click the
                Status tab. 
Click Actions > Install Oozie
                  ShareLib.
Navigate to the cluster’s YARN service in CM and click the Status
            tab.
Click Actions > Install YARN
                  MapReduce Framework JARs.


Related informationTroubleshooting upgradeParent topic: Upgrading Data Hubs