Troubleshooting upgradeCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting upgrade
Use the information in this section to troubleshoot problems with Data Hub
    upgrades.
Root disk space
Service pack upgrades require a certain amount of root disk space. Runtime upgrades require
        downloading additional parcels, and hence more storage. When you begin an upgrade, CDP
        checks the available root disk space and issues a warning if there is insufficient root disk
        space for the upgrade: 

If your instances do not have the free space required for an upgrade (CM: 27 GB,
        other instances: 20 GB), run the scripts below to increase the root volume of the cluster
        nodes.


Script to increase the root disk volume for
              AWS


Script to increase the root disk volume for
                Azure



Oozie Shared Library mismatch

If the upgraded cluster contains the Oozie service, it may appear as being in bad
        health after the upgrade due to an known issue with the Oozie server shared library. On the
        Oozie Shared Library Check page in Cloudera Manager, you will see an error similar to: “The
        Oozie Server build version and the Oozie Server shared library version do not match.”
To workaround this issue, follow the steps at the end of the Performing a service pack
          upgrade section to re-install the Oozie shared libraries and YARN MapReduce Framework
        JARs.

Upgrade fails due to active CM commands
Upgrade may fail if there are active CM commands running when an upgrade is triggered. If
        you receive the error message “There are active commands running on CM, upgrade is not
        possible. Active commands: ApiCommand[..., name: <cm command name>, ]”, then kill the
        active commands and retry the upgrade.

CM, Runtime, or other components are out-of-sync with CDP
When an upgrade fails, the versions of Cloudera Manager, Runtime, and other
        components may become out-of-sync with the CDP Management Console. Similarly, if you try to
        fix errors by installing parcels manually, it may not be reflected in the CDP Management
        Console.
To overcome the mismatch between versions reflected in the Management Console,
        run the  cdp datahub sync-component-versions-from-cm CDP CLI command. This
        command reads the CM, Runtime, and other parcel versions (if applicable) from CM and updates
        the versions in the CDP Management Console. Using this command forces the CDP Management
        Console back in sync so that it shows the actual versions installed in CM.
Run the command as follows: cdp datahub sync-component-versions-from-cm
          --datahub-name <datahub name or CRN>


Related informationPerforming a Data Hub service pack upgradeParent topic: Upgrading Data Hubs