Upgrading Data HubsCloudera Docs
Upgrading Data Hubs
You can upgrade a Data Hub cluster in one of three ways: Runtime and Cloudera Manager
    major/minor version upgrades, service pack upgrades, and OS upgrades.
Cloudera Runtime and Cloudera Manager Major/Minor Version Upgrades
A CDP environment consists of both Data Lake and Data Hub clusters, and currently these
        clusters should run the same major/minor versions of Cloudera Runtime and Cloudera Manager.
        This major/minor version is the first three digits of the Platform Version displayed along
        with the Cloudera Manager information: 

In the image above, the Runtime major/minor version is 7.2.7.
A Data Hub major/minor version upgrade initiates an upgrade of the major/minor
        Cloudera Manager and Runtime versions, as well as the required additional parcels (Spark3,
        Flink, Profiler, and Cloudera Flow Management). The root volumes, additional volumes, and
        the cluster state is retained. A major/minor version upgrade is an express upgrade where the
        services will not be available during the process. 
A major/minor version upgrade is not an OS upgrade, as the OS/VM packages are not
        updated and VMs are not replaced. You can initiate an OS upgrade in a separate step.
        Major/minor upgrades do not update other CDP packages such as Salt.
A major/minor version upgrade does not redistribute the services according to the
        cluster template of the newer version. Nor does it add new services according to the new
        cluster template. Major/minor version upgrades do not add new service configurations in the
        new cluster template. These additional configurations have to be applied manually.
This is not a zero-downtime upgrade, and there will be service outages during the
        upgrade.
When a major/minor version upgrade is available, you will be able to select the target
        version for upgrade from the Upgrade tab at the bottom of the Data
        Hub details page:

For supported versions and templates, see Support matrix for major/minor
          upgrades.
noteUpgrading a custom template is supported, if the template contains only services
        that are included in any supported built-in templates.  If your cluster contains a
          custom service, such as a third-party CM service, contact Cloudera support for an
          entitlement that will allow you to upgrade the cluster. Cloudera cannot support failed
          upgrades for clusters that run unsupported services. Always test any cluster upgrade
        in a development environment first.

Service pack upgrades
The service pack upgrade process checks to see if a new Cloudera Runtime or
        Cloudera Manager service pack is available, and then upgrades the Data Hub to the newest
        builds. Service pack upgrades do not upgrade to a new major/minor version of Runtime and CM;
        they only upgrade to the latest build of a service pack version. 
A service pack upgrade can be conducted on a single Data Hub cluster in an
        environment, or multiple Data Hub clusters. You can perform a service pack upgrade
        independent of a Data Lake upgrade.
When a service pack upgrade is available, you will be able to select the target
        version (which is the same as the current version) for upgrade from the
          Upgrade tab at the bottom of the Data Hub details page. When you
        select the target version, note that the CM/CDP versions are the same, but the build numbers
        differ: 

Service pack upgrades are available from Runtime 7.2.7 onward for RAZ and non-RAZ Data
        Hubs. 
importantThe Cloudera Runtime 7.2.16.3 service pack has new dependencies that
        were not present in most of the previous Runtime versions. Because of this, you may be
        unable to upgrade directly to this service pack version and future service packs without
        first upgrading to a more recent Runtime version.If you plan to upgrade your existing
          Data Hub clusters from a previous release to 7.2.16.3 or later, you can verify whether or
          not you will first be required to perform an additional upgrade step:

Select the Data Hub that you want to upgrade and click on the
                Upgrade tab.
If you see a warning message about missing prerequisites, follow the given steps to
              perform the additional upgrade before you upgrade to the latest 7.2.16 service
              pack.

If your current Runtime version is 7.2.16 or any 7.2.16 service packs, these
          additional steps will include first performing an OS upgrade before upgrading to the
          7.2.16.3 service pack.If your current Runtime version is 7.2.12, 7.2.14, or 7.2.15,
          these steps may include upgrading to the most recent service pack of your current Runtime
          version, as well as performing a separate OS upgrade for your current Runtime version,
          before you can perform a major/minor version upgrade to 7.2.16.3.

OS Upgrades
An OS upgrade updates the OS and VM packages to those available in the latest
        pre-warmed image. This is done by replacing the VM, re-attaching the attached volumes, and
        restarting the services. In the process, the data on root volume (for example, parcels and
        service logs) is lost. On larger clusters, test the OS upgrade in a development environment
        as the upgrade may exceed some of the cloud resource limits.
An OS upgrade does not upgrade the platform version (CM, Runtime, and additional
        parcels). You can perform an OS upgrade independent of a Data Hub upgrade. The OS upgrade
        triggers the execution of any pre-service-deployment, post-cluster-manager-start, or
        post-service-deployment recipes.
If an OS upgrade is available, it will appear in the Upgrade Data Hub menu with
        “(OS Upgrade Only)” when you select a Runtime version:


Limitations


This is not a zero-downtime upgrade and service outages will occur.
Ranger Authorization: Data Hub service pack upgrades with RAZ are supported only for
            Runtime versions 7.2.7+. Major/minor version upgrades with RAZ are supported only for
            Runtime versions 7.2.10-7.2.12 to versions 7.2.14+.
During an OS upgrade, any data on the root volume (parcels, service logs, custom
            software) will be lost. For older clusters (created before March 26, 2021), OS upgrade
            is not available when the embedded Cloudera Manager database is on the root volume.
Cloudera Operational Database cannot be upgraded through the Data Hub user interface
            and must be upgraded through the CDP beta CLI. For more information see Upgrading
              Cloudera Operational Database.



Prerequisites


There is required downtime of the environment during upgrades, so plan the
            upgrade accordingly.
Verify using the Support matrix for Data Hub upgrades that all Data Hub
            clusters in the environment are a type and version supported for major/minor
            upgrades.
Test your applications against the new platform version in a separate environment
            before the Runtime/CM upgrade to ensure application compatibility with the new platform
            version.
The Data Lake and all the Data Hubs in an environment must be upgraded to the same
            major/minor version, with the exception of Data Hubs on Runtime version 7.2.16+, which
            are compatible with newer versions of the Data Lake (7.2.17+, because the Data
            Lake must always run a higher Runtime version). If you plan to upgrade your Data Hub
            clusters to a later major/minor version, you must first backup and then upgrade the Data
            Lake.
Verify that any Experiences you use are running the latest version
            available.




Related informationData Lake upgradeSupport matrix for Data Hub upgradesUpgrading Cloudera Operational Database clustersSupport matrix for Data Hub upgradesData Hub upgrades are supported only for the templates and Runtime versions listed     below.Backing up before an upgradeThe Data Hub upgrade is an in-place upgrade and the data on attached volumes will be     retained. The following section outlines data stored in the Data Hub clusters by different     services. To prepare for a worst-case scenario where the cluster can't be restored, retain the     data in these clusters. Also take note of any cluster configurations updated through Cloudera     Manager.Performing a Data Hub major/minor version upgradeA major/minor version upgrade initiates an upgrade of the major/minor Cloudera     Manager and Runtime versions, as well as the required additional parcels (Spark3, Flink,     Profiler, and Cloudera Flow Management). After you perform a major/minor upgrade on a Data Lake,     you should in most cases perform a major/minor version upgrade on each Data Hub attached to the     Data Lake. The Data Hubs must run the same major/minor Runtime version as the Data Lake--with     the exception of Data Hubs on Runtime 7.2.16+, which are compatible with Data Lake versions     7.2.17+.Upgrading Cloudera Operational Database clustersCloudera Operational Database clusters cannot be upgraded through the Data Hub user     interface. Instead, use the CDP Beta CLI to run the upgrade-database     command.Performing a Data Hub service pack upgradeA service pack upgrade can be conducted on a single Data Hub cluster in an     environment, or on multiple Data Hub clusters.Performing a Data Hub OS upgradePerform a Data Hub OS upgrade to update the OS and VM packages to those available in     the latest pre-warmed image.Upgrading a Data Hub with the CDP CLIYou can initiate a Data Hub upgrade (either OS, Runtime, or both) with the CDP CLI.     Using the same CLI command, you can also search for and validate available images to upgrade to,     and generate JSON templates for specific upgrade scenarios.Troubleshooting upgradeUse the information in this section to troubleshoot problems with Data Hub     upgrades.