Managing certificatesCloudera Docs
Managing certificates
There are two types of certificates within CDP that you must manage: public and private,
    also called host certificates.


Public certificates are Let's Encrypt-issued certificates for Data Hub and Data Lake
          clusters. These certificates are available on port 443 (HTTPS) of the cluster and are
          responsible for enabling TLS in front of Knox and other available services on that port.
          They are valid for 90 days, and in most circumstances CDP will renew these certificates
          automatically before they expire. Note the following limitations in regards to
            automatic renewal of public certificates:
Data Hub or Data Lake clusters created on or after March 7, 2022 are eligible for
                automatic renewal of public certificates. Clusters created before March 7, 2022,
                must be renewed manually once following the instructions in Manually
                  renewing public certificates for Data Lake and Data Hub clusters. After the
                public certificate for a cluster has been manually renewed once from the CDP UI or
                CLI, it is eligible for automatic certificate renewal in the future.
If an automatic renewal fails, the renewal service will retry the renewal for
                three consecutive days or three attempts. Any cluster that cannot be renewed by
                these retry attempts must be renewed manually through the CDP UI or CLI.
The auto renewal service does not know the status of the cluster. If the cluster
                is down or performing another operation, the automatic renewal may fail and you
                should initiate the renewal from the UI or CLI manually. 
If the cluster is down during the renewal attempts and comes back up after the
                renewal retries are exhausted, automatic renewal will not happen for that cluster.
                The certificate has to renewed manually from the UI or CLI. 
If a public certificate expires, you’ll receive a warning that your connection is
                not secure when you attempt to access a Data Lake or Data Hub cluster through the
                CDP UI.
See Manually renewing public certificates for Data Lake and Data Hub
              clusters for instructions on renewing the public certificates
          manually.
Private certificates, or host certificates, are certificates created during cluster
          provisioning for every host with Auto-TLS. Private/host certificates have a default
          expiration date of one year. As private certificates get closer to expiration, the CDP UI
          displays a warning that the certificate is about to expire.


Though the CDP UI displays a warning about the expiration of private/host certificates, you
      are still responsible for renewing them through the UI or CDP CLI. After the certificates
      expire, the cluster is not functional, so you must renew them before expiration.

Renewing private/host certificates on Data Lake and Data Hub clustersPrivate (host) certificates have a default expiration date of one year; to keep the     Data Lake and Data Hub clusters running, you must renew the host certificates before they     expire. Manually renewing public certificates for Data Lake and Data Hub clustersPublic certificates are responsible for enabling TLS in front of Knox and other     available services on port 443 of Data Lake and Data Hub clusters. Public certificates expire     every 90 days and are often automatically renewed by CDP. If automatic renewal fails, you can     renew these certificates manually.