Upgrading Data Lake/Data Hub databaseCloudera Docs
Upgrading Data Lake/Data Hub database
 This document describes the process to upgrade the database to the latest version
        supported by CDP Public Cloud services. You may use CDP UI or CDP CLI to perform this
        upgrade.
Several CDP Public Cloud services, including the Data Lake cluster and the Data Hub
      cluster templates and Data Services, require a relational database. Most of these databases
      are external and are provisioned during the initial deployment of the respective service.The databases used by the Data Lake and some of the Data Hub templates are hosted
        on external instances that are provisioned during the initial deployment of the
        respective service. For these external databases CDP Public Cloud leverages cloud-native
        service offerings of the three supported Cloud Service Providers (AWS RDS
            for PostgreSQL, Azure Database for PostgreSQL and Cloud
            SQL for PostgreSQL). Databases used by other Data Hub
        templates are hosted on an embedded database instance, typically co-located on the
        Cloudera Manager host, in order to reduce the resource footprint.Cloudera
        provides a database upgrade capability in CDP Public Cloud that allows moving both external
        and embedded databases to a higher major version.noteIn accordance
        with the PostgreSQL Versioning Policy, the cloud database services
        mentioned above may end support for PostgreSQL major version 11 on November 9, 2023 or
        shortly thereafter. Different cloud providers may have extended support for PostgreSQL 11.
        Despite this, Cloudera recommends upgrading to PostgreSQL 14 when the upgrade is available
        to you in CDP. Currently, upgrading the Data Lake or Data Hub database to PostgreSQL 14 is
        available for clusters on AWS and GCP, with Azure upgrades to PostgreSQL 14 available soon.
        Azure databases that require an upgrade will be upgraded from PostgreSQL 10 to 11.
        importantIn order to avoid disruption to the deployed Data Lake and
        Data Hub services, caused by configuration changes to the underlying database service by the
        Cloud Service Providers, it is recommended that the database upgrade in CDP Public Cloud is
        performed before the End of Life date.If you wish to disregard this recommendation, you
          may do so considering the risks involved as per the Cloud Service Provider policies.
        The database upgrade is a separate operation, complementary to the existing maintenance, minor/major version and OS
        upgrades, as described in the CDP Public Cloud Upgrade Advisor. This is a one-time operation. Once the database of a Data Lake or Data Hub has been
        successfully upgraded to the newer major version, no further action is needed for the
        respective cluster.noteCloudera recommends that the database
        upgrade is performed separately from other upgrade actions. If a cluster
        uses a database that requires an upgrade, you will receive a notification, as shown below,
        on the Management Console UI. noteClusters running Cloudera Runtime
          version 7.2.6 or lower need to be upgraded to a more recent runtime version before
          they are eligible for a database upgrade. Running the database
        upgrade operation on the Data Hub cluster will mean that all cluster services (Cloudera
        Manager and Rutime services) are stopped on the cluster automatically without having to stop
        them manually. For the Data Lake database upgrade, it is recommended that attached Data Hubs
        and Data services are in stopped state.noteCloudera strongly
        recommends stopping all workloads in Data Services that interact with the Data Lake. If
          you are concerned about stopping the workloads in your deployment, contact Cloudera
          support for a custom upgrade path.For AWS and GCP environments, the Database
        Upgrade operation will trigger a backup and a major version upgrade for the attached
        external database. But for Azure environments, the mechanism is different; as in the
        background, it will create a new database instance with a higher major version and transfer
        the data from the older database instance.note During Postgres
          database upgrade for Data Lakes and Data Hubs on AWS and Azure, there is a possibility
          that manually changed configs of the database server will be reverted to the original
          configs. For more information, see  Database upgrade known limitations.
InstructionsHere are the UI and CLI instructions to perform Database Upgrade
        on Data Lake and Data Hub: CDP UICDP CLISteps
In CDP Management Console UI, go to
                  Environments. Select the cluster to perform the upgrade
                from the list of available clusters. The clusters are eligible for this upgrade are
                indicated in the right most column:
Once you select the cluster, you will see a message asking to update
                the Postgres version. Click the Upgrade database.
Click Upgrade in the confirmation box.
Once the Data Lake database is updated, check for the Data Hubs for that Data Lake,
              if there is any database upgrade notification and perform the database upgrade as
              described above. note The Database upgrade needs to be
                performed in every Data Lake and Data Hub cluster separately, one by
              one.

Data Lake Database upgrade:
You can perform Data Lake database upgrade using cdp datalake
              start-database-upgrade CLI command.
The --target-version parameter is optional. If you do not provide it,
            the database will be upgraded to either PostgreSQL 14 (AWS and GCP) or Postgres 11
            (Azure). You can also use the VERSION_11 value if you specifically want
            to upgrade to PostgreSQL 11.
cdp datalake start-database-upgrade --help --form-factor public
NAME
       start-database-upgrade  -  Upgrades the database of the Data Lake clus-
       ter.

DESCRIPTION
       This command initiates the upgrade of the database  of  the  Data  Lake
       cluster.

SYNOPSIS
            start-database-upgrade
          --datalake <value>
          --target-version <value>
          [--cli-input-json <value>]
          [--generate-cli-skeleton]

OPTIONS
       --datalake (string)
          The name or CRN of the Data Lake.

       --target-version (string)
          The database engine major version to upgrade to.

          Possible values:

          o VERSION_11

Data Hub Database upgrade:
You can perform Data Hub database upgrade using cdp datahub
              start-database-upgrade CLI command.
The --target-version parameter is optional. If you do not provide it,
            the database will be upgraded to either PostgreSQL 14 (AWS and GCP) or Postgres 11
            (Azure). You can also use the VERSION_11 value if you specifically want
            to upgrade to PostgreSQL 11.
cdp datahub start-database-upgrade --help --form-factor public
NAME
       start-datahub-upgrade  -  Upgrades the database of the Data Hub clus-
       ter.

DESCRIPTION
       This command initiates the upgrade of the database  of  the  Data  Hub
       cluster.

SYNOPSIS
            start-database-upgrade
          --datahub <value>
          --target-version <value>
          [--cli-input-json <value>]
          [--generate-cli-skeleton]

OPTIONS
       --datahub (string)
          The name or CRN of the Data Hub.

       --target-version (string)
          The database engine major version to upgrade to.

          Possible values:

          o VERSION_11
The progress of the upgrade can be tracked on the respective service’s
        Event History page. Once the upgrade is complete, Cloudera recommends verifying your
        workloads before attempting an additional Runtime or OS upgrade.noteAs part of the database upgrade operation, PostgreSQL 11 or 14 client
        binaries will be installed on the cluster hosts, replacing earlier client versions. This may
        impact third-party components or custom services running on the cluster
      hosts.

Database upgrade known limitations and troubleshootingBelow are the known limitations associated with the database upgrade of Data Lake and         Data Hubs and ways to troubleshoot them.Installing Postgres 14 packages manuallySteps for manual installation of PostgreSQL 14 packages. Installing Postgres 11 packages manuallySteps for manual installation of PostgreSQL 11 packages. 