Database upgrade known limitations and troubleshootingCloudera Docs
Database upgrade known limitations and troubleshooting
Below are the known limitations associated with the database upgrade of Data Lake and
        Data Hubs and ways to troubleshoot them.
Known limitations and troubleshooting:
Performing the Database Upgrade on Runtime versions 7.2.6 or
                        belowCloudera has verified PostgreSQL version 11 compatibility for
                        Runtime version 7.2.7 and above. There is no known reason why older Runtimes
                        should not be compatible with PostgreSQL version 10.
                            Workaround: You can request an entitlement that allows the
                        Database Upgrade to be performed on older Runtime versions on an exceptional
                        basis.
Performing the Database Upgrade on Data Lakes with attached Data Hubs that
                        cannot be stoppedTechnically, the Database Upgrade can be performed
                        on a Data Lake without stopping the attached Data Hubs. However, please be
                        aware that during the upgrade, the Hive Metastore database will likely
                        become temporarily unavailable and this can cause serious disruption or in
                        the worst case can result in an inconsistent state for workloads running in
                        Data Hubs or Data Services. Workaround: If you acknowledge the
                        risk and confirm that all cluster services and third party components
                        relying on the Hive Metastore will be stopped for the time of the Database
                        Upgrade, Cloudera can grant an entitlement that allows performing the
                        upgrade with a running Data Hub cluster on an exceptional basis.
PostgreSQL client binaries will upgraded to version 11 on all clusters
                        hostsAs part of the upgrade process we will try to install the
                        PostgreSQL 11 libraries, pulling them from archive.cloudera.com. If the
                        installation of these libraries does not succeed, a notification message
                        will be sent that installation was attempted, but failed for some reason
                        (network connectivity issues, etc). Workaround: Follow the
                        process to install the libraries manually, see  Installing PostergeSQL 11 packages manually. noteFailing to
                            install the PostgreSQL 11 client libraries as part of the Database
                            Upgrade process will cause the Data Lake backup and restore operations
                            to stop working correctly.
Upgrading embedded databasesData Hub clusters using an embedded
                        database will not require the Database Upgrade operation to be performed.
                        The embedded database, including client libraries will be automatically
                        upgraded during an OS upgrade. noteThis capability
                            is currently disabled and will be activated
                            later.Workaround: If you need to upgrade the embedded
                        databases of your Data Hub clusters, contact Cloudera to enable this
                        capability on an exceptional basis. Once this entitlement has been granted,
                        your embedded databases can be upgraded by performing an OS
                    upgrade.
Exceeding the End of Life deadlineData Lake and Data Hub
                        clusters that are not upgraded until November 10, 2022 will continue to run
                        on a PostgreSQL version 10 instance of the underlying AWS, Azure or GCP
                        database service. As this instance will be considered End-of-Life (EoL) by
                        the respective Cloud Service provider, they may reserve the right to
                        schedule an automated major version upgrade, resulting in a temporary
                        downtime. In the case of extreme events the Cloud Service Provider may also
                        stop the instance, see Versioning policy- Azure Database for
                                PostgreSQL. In either case, your CDP Public Cloud
                        workloads may be seriously impacted. Workaround: 
                        Cloudera recommends performing the Database Upgrade via the CDP UI, or CLI
                        as soon as possible.
Possibility of custom config reset after Database upgrade on AWS and
            AzureDuring Postgres database upgrade for Data Lakes and Data Hubs there is a
            possibility that manually changed configs of the database server, that the control plane
            does not know about, will be reverted to the original configs.Reason: On
            Azure the custom config can possibly reset during the database upgrade because
            Cloudbreak deletes and recreates the database server with the configs that the control
            plane knows about, so custom configs will be reverted.On AWS if SSL enforcement
            is enabled then the database server uses a custom parameter group with the SSL
            enforcement settings (created by control plane) and if the customer made any custom
            changes to this custom parameter group then those changed will be reverted, because the
            database upgrade requires the recreation of the custom parameter group. 


Parent topic: Upgrading Data Lake/Data Hub database