Table and column statisticsCloudera Docs
Table and column statistics
Table and column statistics help Impala generate optimal query
    plans using table sizes and the degree of cardinality in columns.
By: Manish Maheshwari, Data Architect and Data Scientist at Cloudera, Inc.
The statistics information is stored in the Hive metastore database. You
     run the COMPUTE STATS statement to collect and set
     table-level and partition-level row counts as well as column statistics for
     a particular table. However, running this statement is very CPU-intensive.
     Based on the number of rows, number of data files, the total size of the
     data files, and the file format that are involved, Cloudera recommends the
     following strategies for computing statistics:


Missing stats can be identified by using the following SHOW
         commands:
SHOW TABLE STATS [database_name.]table_name
SHOW COLUMN STATS [database_name.]table_name
For more information about running SHOW commands,
         see SHOW Statement.


Table and column statistics are also recorded in the query profile as
         shown below:


Do not compute statistics for tables that are not used in joins or for
       Impala queries. For example, statistics on a staging table that feeds
       into a data warehouse layer table one-to-one with no joins does not
       require statistics.

Limit running COMPUTE STATS only to columns that are
         involved in filters, join conditions, or GROUP BY
         clauses. For example, running COMPUTE STATS in the
         following situation makes sense:
COMPUTE STATS wide_table [ join_column_a, join_column_b ]

Rerun COMPUTE STATS only when there is over 30% data
       change in the data.
Cloudera recommends that you run COMPUTE STATS in
       off-peak hours, on weekends, or at night.
When you reload a complete table or partition, where the number of rows
       and distinct values for each column is relatively unchanged from before,
       there is no need to rerun COMPUTE STATS.

Also see Table and Column Statistics for more
     information about table and column statistics.

Setting statistics manuallyFor tables and partitions where the statistics do not change or are     already known, statistics can be set manually.