Admission controlCloudera Docs
Admission control
The admission control feature controls the number of concurrent
    queries running on the cluster, which avoids out-of-memory issues on busy
    clusters.
By: Manish Maheshwari, Data Architect and Data Scientist at Cloudera, Inc.
Once the limit that you set in admission control has been reached,
     subsequent queries are queued and wait for running queries to finish before
     they run. You can configure the amount of time that queries can wait. Using
     admission control, you can set the default memory that can be used by each
     query in a pool. If you do not set a default memory limit, Impala uses
     heuristics based on table and column statistics to determine the amount of
     memory that each query requires.
Cloudera recommends that you set the number of concurrently running
     queries between 40-60. This loosely corresponds to the number of threads on
     each of the Impala daemons.
Best practices for using admission control are:

Ensure that admission control is enabled by checking the following
       setting in Cloudera Manager:
     


Ensure that the Minimum Query Memory Limit and
       the Maximum Query Memory Limit, or the
         Default Query Memory Limit is set for all pools:

You can check these settings in Cloudera Manager. From the Cloudera
         Manager home page, click Clusters in the left
         navigation tree and select Impala Admission Control Configuration:

In CDH 6.2, admission control settings have also been added to the
         Impala Web UI. See Troubleshooting with the Impala Web UI
         in the product documentation for details.

If the default memory limit is set, query profiles show the following message:
     


If the default memory limit is set too low and the query times out and
         you receive a “Memory limit exceeded” error message, rerun the query
         using the SET MEM_LIMIT option. For example:
SET MEM_LIMIT = 3gb;
For details about this SET statement, see MEM_LIMIT Query Option.

The total maximum memory set across all of the pools should be equal
       to the total memory that is allocated to the Impala service.


Estimating memory limitsUse Cloudera Manager Chart Builder to determine memory limits for    resource pools.