Setting up dedicated coordinatorsCloudera Docs
Setting up dedicated coordinators
 Setting up dedicated coordinators helps improve performance on
   large clusters or for large Impala workloads.
By: Manish Maheshwari, Data Architect and Data Scientist at Cloudera, Inc.
Impala can build execution plans and execute queries rapidly because it
     caches block and file metadata for HDFS tables on the Catalog Server and
     the query coordinator. When a new table is queried, the coordinator node
     requests the metadata from the catalog service daemon (catalogd),
     which in turn talks to the Hive Metastore (HMS) and the Namenode to
     retrieve the information:

Problem with typical coordinator setup:
On large clusters or for large Impala workloads, the typical coordinator setup can become
       problematic for the following reasons:

Each coordinator caches metadata for all table partitions and data files. This requires
         coordinators to be configured with a large JVM heap size.
The extra work required for the coordinator interferes with its capacity to perform query
       execution work due to network and CPU overhead for queries containing a large number of query
       fragments.

Having a large number of hosts acting as coordinators can cause unnecessary network
         overhead because each of those hosts receives metadata from the Statestore daemon
         (statestored) for metadata updates>:
         


Depending on the size of the Hive Metastore and the partitions,
         files, and blocks of the tables being queried, the in-memory catalog
         can become very large. This can cause pressure on the Impala daemons’
         memory.
The soft limits imposed by the admission control feature are more
         likely to be exceeded when there is a large number of heavily loaded
         hosts acting as coordinators, which causes admission control limits to
         be exceeded.


Dedicated coordinator setup solution:
To solve this coordinator setup problem, separate roles for coordinators and executors as
       shown below:


How the dedicated coordinator setup works

Run coordinator roles on edge nodes and gateway nodes. Run executors
         on the data nodes.
Only coordinator nodes cache the metadata. They perform the task of
         query coordination and a few other tasks like final sorts for the
         queries. The executor roles read from HDFS, join tables, and some
         related tasks.
With this configuration, the executor daemons cannot be connected
         through Impala shell or JDBC connections.
Configure coordinator daemons with large enough JVM heap size to hold
         the metadata in memory. Configure For Impala daemons that are assigned
         a dedicated role as an executor only, configure those with the default
         JVM heap size. See 
         Impala Properties for the
         suggested default JVM heap size to set for Impala daemons.


Benefits of setting up dedicated coordinators

Reduces memory usage on executor nodes.
Avoids coordinator CPU bottlenecks caused by query execution tasks.
Reduces the likelihood that admission control limits are exceeded.
Reduces network utilization on the Statestore daemon by limiting
         metadata broadcast to only the coordinator nodes.
Improves reliability and performance by reducing workload stress on
         coordinators. 



Load balancing for coordinatorsCloudera recommends setting up a load balancer for incoming     connections to Impala.