Automatic metadata managementCloudera Docs
Automatic metadata management
Impala automatic metadata management feature uses notifications to refresh data after
    changes.
By: Manish Maheshwari, Data Architect and Data Scientist at Cloudera, Inc.
When tools such as Hive and Spark are used to process raw data
     ingested into Hive tables, new Hive metastore metadata (in the form of
     databases, tables, and partitions) and file system metadata (in the form of
     new files in existing partitions and tables) are generated. In previous
     versions of Impala, to pick up this new information, Impala users had to
     manually issue an INVALIDATE or REFRESH
     command. Now, there is a new feature called automatic metadata management.
     Automatic metadata management works by using Hive metastore notifications
     which performs the following:

Invalidates tables when it receives an ALTER TABLE event.
Refreshes the partition when it receives an ALTER TABLE ADD | DROP PARTITION event.
Adds the tables or databases when it receives a CREATE TABLE
       or CREATE DATABASE event.
Removes tables from the Catalog (catalogd) when it
       receives a DROP TABLE or DROP DATABASE events.
Refreshes table and partitions when it receives INSERT events.

When there are database-level changes, the following types of changes are supported:

Database properties
Comments on the database
Owner of the database
Default location of the database

Figure 1. Hive metastore notifications


To control this feature, use the --hms_event_polling_interval_s
     flag on the catalogd. When set to a positive value, it
     enables Hive metastore event polling. The recommended value to set this
     flag to is under 5 seconds.
The automatic metadata management feature does not support files or
     partitions that have been manually added to HDFS by using Spark, DistCp, or
     HDFS Put because no Hive metastore notification is generated for these
     operations. To handle these scenarios, use one of the following methods:

Use the LOAD DATA command to handle the metadata changes, or
Run a REFRESH [db_name.]table_name [PARTITION… command
       or an ALTER TABLE table_name RECOVER PARTITIONS command. 
     

If you need to disable automatic metadata management for certain tables or
     databases, set the following properties:
CREATE DATABASE <db_name> DBPROPERTIES ('impala.disableHmsSync'='true');
CREATE TABLE <tab_name> WITHTBLPROPERTIES ('impala.disableHmsSync'='true' | 'false');

Parent topic: On-demand metadata and metadata management