On-demand metadata and metadata managementCloudera Docs
On-demand metadata and metadata management
The on-demand metadata feature streamlines metadata handling on the
    coordinators.
By: Manish Maheshwari, Data Architect and Data Scientist at Cloudera, Inc.
Before the on-demand metadata feature was released, every
     coordinator kept a replica of all the metadata locally. This consumed a
     large amount of memory on each coordinator with no option to evict it.
     Metadata was sent by the Statestore to all the coordinators despite how the
     metadata was eventually used.
The on-demand metadata feature includes the following improvements:

Coordinators pull metadata from the Catalog daemon (catalogd)
       for the required tables when they need it for query planning and cache it
       locally. The Statestore no longer transmits all the metadata for all the
       tables to each coordinator.
Cached metadata gets evicted automatically under memory pressure
       treating the cache like an LRU (least recently used) buffer.
Granularity of on-demand metadata fetch is at the partition level, so
       common use cases like add/drop partitions do not trigger unnecessary
       metadata transfers.

For more information about on-demand metadata management in Impala, see
     Managing Metadata in Impala.
   

Enabling on-demand metadata fetchUse Cloudera Manager to enable on-demand metadata fetch for Impala.Enabling release of stale metadataUse Cloudera Manager to enable the release of stale metadata in Impala.Avoiding small filesTo reduce the amount of memory used by the Catalog for metadata,     avoid creating many small files in HDFS. Automatic metadata managementImpala automatic metadata management feature uses notifications to refresh data after     changes.Coding in Spark for automatic metadata managementThe Spark API, which saves data to a specified location, does not generate events in     the Hive metastore so it is not supported by automatic metadata management.Manual metadata managementIf you are not using CDH 6.2 or 5.16, you must manage metadata     manually for ETL operations that run in Hive on Spark or third party ETL     tools.