Extractor configuration propertiesCloudera Docs
Extractor configuration properties
Some of the extractor configuration properties.



Configuration Parameter (prefixed with
                atlas.s3.extraction)
Purpose



.aws.region

Required. AWS S3 region for extraction. CDP Public Cloud: provided by
                  IDBroker integration.
CDP Data Center: the region must be provided.




.access.key
.secret.key
.session.token


AWS S3 credentials.
CDP Public Cloud: provided by IDBroker integration.
CDP Data Center: 


For basic authentication, provide access and secret keys. 


For session based authentication, provide all three
                      credentials.
Configure credentials for Atlas extraction.





.whitelist.paths

Set of data assets to include in metadata extraction. If no paths are
                  included, the extractor extracts metadata for all buckets. Buckets inside the
                  region and accessible by the credential used to run the extractor. For public
                  cloud, this is defined in aws-cdp-bucket-access-policy.
The list can include buckets or paths; separate multiple values with
                  commas. See Defining what assets to extract metadata for.



.blacklist.paths
Set of data assets to exclude from metadata extraction. The list can include
                buckets or paths; separate multiple values with commas. See Defining what assets to extract metadata for.


.max.object.per.call
Number of objects returned in one call to AWS S3 in bulk extraction. Defaults
                to 1000.


.resume.from.progress.file
Enable bulk extraction resume. Disabled by default. 


.progress.file
Name of the progress file that tracks bulk extraction that will be used if the
                extraction has to be resumed mid-way after a failure. This file is created in the
                Atlas log directory. Defaults to
                extractor_progress_file.log


.max.reconnect.count
Number of times the extractor will try to reconnect to AWS in case of
                credentials expiring or retryable exception from AWS S3. Defaults
                to 2.


.fs.scheme
File system scheme used in case of AWS S3. At this time, S3a
                is the only option.


.incremental.queueName
Required for incremental mode. AWS SQS Queue name configured to get the AWS S3
                bucket events.


.incremental.messagesPerRequest
The number of messages the extractor will try to get from the SQS queue in one
                call. Defaults to 10.


.incremental.requestWaitTime
The interval that the extractor will wait to collect messages so long as the
                limit set in .incremental.messagesPerRequest hasn't been met. Defaults to 20
                seconds.


.incremental.max.retry
Maximum retry count if the SQS queue doesn't respond during an extractor
                request. Defaults to 20.




Parent topic: S3 Extractor configuration