S3 entities created in AtlasCloudera Docs
S3 entities created in Atlas
Note that previous versions of Atlas included other metadata models for S3 data. The version 2 (V2) models are supported as of CDP 7.2.0.


AWS S3 BaseS3 entities that represent S3 buckets and objects inherit attributes from the S3 base entity type. Atlas does not generate entities of this type; it is used only as a supertype for other entity definitions. AWS S3 ContainerThe S3 model includes two entity definitions that generalize the hierarchical relationship among the other entity types. Atlas does not generate entities of this type; it is used only as a supertype for other entity definitions. The "container" entity type includes a relationship that represents the one-to-many relationship between a directory and objects in the directory. The "contained" relationship looks the other way to represent the one-to-one relationship between an object and its parent, either a directory or a bucket. AWS S3 ContainedThe S3 model includes two entity definitions that generalize the hierarchical relationship among the other entity types. Atlas does not generate entities of this type; it is used only as a supertype for other entity definitions. The "contained" relationship represents the one-to-one relationship between an object and its parent, either a directory or a bucket. The "container" entity type provides the opposite relationship: the one-to-many relationship between a bucket or directory and objects in the directory. AWS S3 BucketThe Atlas entity type for bucket metadata inherits attributes from the       AWS_S3_V2_BASE entity type and includes additional attributes specific to     bucket metadata.AWS S3 ObjectThough AWS S3 includes both files and directories as objects, the Atlas model creates     separate entity types for objects from directories. AWS S3 DirectoryThe Atlas entity type for "directory" metadata inherits attributes from the       AWS_S3_V2_OBJECT entity type and includes additional attributes specific to     object metadata. 