Streams Messaging Manager OverviewCloudera Docs
Streams Messaging Manager Overview

 Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) is an operations monitoring and management tool that provides
   end-to-end visibility in an enterprise Apache Kafka® environment. With SMM, you can gain clear
   insights about your Kafka clusters. You can understand the end-to-end flow of message streams
   from producers to topics to consumers. SMM helps you troubleshoot your Kafka environment to
   identify bottlenecks, throughputs, consumer patterns, traffic flow etc. SMM enables you to
   analyze the stream dynamics between producers and consumers using various filters. You can
   optimize your Kafka environment based on the key performance insights gathered from various
   brokers and topics. With the tight integration of Apache Atlas, you can gain complete data
   lineage across multiple Kafka hops, producers and consumers with powerful data flow
   visualization.
Simplifies Troubleshooting Kafka Environments
SMM provides intelligence-based filtering that allows a user to select a producer, broker,
   topic or consumer and see only related entities based on the selection. SMM is smart enough to
   show only those producers that are sending data to the selected topics and show only those
   consumer groups that are consuming from those topics. The filtering works on the selection of any
   of the four entities. This enables users to quickly hone in on the root cause when
   troubleshooting and debugging Kafka issues.
Visualizes end-to-end Kafka stream flows
Another powerful feature of SMM is its ability to visualize all the data streams/flows across
   all your Kafka clusters. You can select any entity and visualize how data flows with respect to
   the entity selected.
Extends monitoring and management capabilities with REST API
SMM offers REST endpoints for all of its capabilities. This enables developers to integrate SMM
   with their other enterprise tools such as APM or case or ticketing systems. 

