Ranger RMS field issues - HDFS latencyCloudera Docs
Ranger RMS field issues - HDFS latency
Ranger RMS customers may experience intermittent high RPC queue and processing
        time.
Condition
When Apache Ranger (Ranger) Resource Mapping Server (RMS) is enabled, customers may
                intermittently encounter high Remote Procedure Call (RPC) queue time in the Hadoop
                Distributed File System (HDFS) NameNode, which results in jobs requiring more time
                than usual to finish. This is caused by the process of the Ranger HDFS plugin that
                needs to evaluate applicable Apache Hive (Hive) policies in addition to a set of
                HDFS policies for each HDFS location authorization. The evaluation process may cause
                access authorization latency of an additional 10-20 ms under heavy load, which in
                turn causes high NameNode RPC time.


Components Affected:
HDFS
Ranger RMS
Hive
Products Affected:
CDP Private Cloud Base 
Releases Affected:
CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.7 Service Pack (SP) 1 Cumulative Hotfix (CHF)
                            1 and higher versions
CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.7 SP2 CHF4 and lower versions
CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 CHF5 and lower versions




Cause
When Ranger RMS is enabled and a large number of access requests are made to the
                    Ranger plugin in HDFS, it may take more than 10 ms to evaluate the access. If
                    Ranger takes more than 10 ms to evaluate access in the middle of a write lock,
                    all other calls will be blocked. This leads to slow response during the
                    read/write operations on HDFS location, and increases the NameNode RPC queue
                    time and processing time.

Remedy


As a workaround, add HDFS policies to authorize access for users and
                            groups with heavy workloads, and configure RMS to skip chained plugin
                            evaluation for these users and groups by performing the following
                            steps:



Create HDFS policies in Ranger Admin Web UI for the identified heavy
                            users by referring to the existing Hive policies. Please contact support
                            for help on identifying users with heavy workloads.

To skip evaluation of Hive policies for the identified users or groups,
                            go to Cloudera Manager  > HDFS > Configurations > Safety Valve (ranger-hdfs-security.xml), and add the following properties:


ranger.plugin.hdfs.whitelisted.users=hive,impala,testuser1,testuser2
ranger.plugin.hdfs.whitelisted.groups=group1,group2



Restart the HDFS service, and observe the performance.




