Configure TLS/SSL encryption for SolrCloudera Docs
Configure TLS/SSL encryption for Solr
Although Cloudera recommends using AutoTLS, you also have the option to set up TLS
  manually for Cloudera Search.
Minimum required role: Configurator (Also
   provided by Cluster Administrator, Full
    Administrator)
The Solr service must be running.
Keystores for Solr must be readable by the solr user. This could be a copy
     of the Hadoop services' keystore with permissions 0440 and owned by the
      solr group.
Truststores must have permissions 0444 (that is, readable by all).
Specify absolute paths to the keystore and truststore files. These settings apply to all
     hosts on which daemon roles of the Solr service run. Therefore, the paths you choose must be
     valid on all hosts.
In case there is a DataNode and a Solr server running on the same host, they can use the
     same certificate.
For more information on obtaining signed certificates and creating keystores, see
     Encrypting Data in Transit. You can also view the upstream Solr
   documentation.

An additional consideration when configuring TLS/SSL for Solr HA is to allow clients to talk
    to Solr servers (the target servers) through the load balancer using TLS/SSL. To achieve this,
    you have to configure the load balancer for TLS/SSL pass-through, which means the load balancer
    does not perform encryption/decryption but simply passes traffic from clients and servers to the
    appropriate target host. See the documentation of your load balancer for details.


Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and go to the Solr service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Scope > All.

In the Search field, type TLS/SSL to show the Solr TLS/SSL properties.

Edit the following properties according to your cluster configuration.

noteThese values must be the same for all hosts running the Solr role.
Table 1. Solr TLS/SSL Properties

Property
Description



Enable TLS/SSL for Solr
Check this field to enable TLS for Solr.


Solr TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and private
          key used for TLS/SSL. Used when Solr is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The keystore must be
          in JKS format.


Solr TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Password
Password for the Solr JKS keystore.


Solr TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File

Required in case of self-signed or internal CA signed certificates. The location on
          disk of the truststore, in .jks format, used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL
          servers that Solr might connect to. This is used when Solr is the client in a TLS/SSL
          connection. This truststore must contain the certificate(s) used to sign the service(s)
          being connected to. If this parameter is not provided, the default list of well-known
          certificate authorities is used instead.


Solr TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
The password for the Solr TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store File. This password is not
          required to access the truststore: this field can be left blank. This password provides
          optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of truststores are certificates, and
          certificates are public information.




Enter a Reason for Change, and then click Save
      Changes to commit your changes.

Launch the Stale Configuration wizard to restart the Solr service
     and any dependent services.

If Ranger authorization has been enabled for the Solr service,
   you need to update the Solr Collection URL (for a resource-based policy)
   or Solr URL (for a resource-based service) from
    http://host_ip:8983/solr to
    https://host_ip:8985/solr on the Ranger Admin Web UI.

Related informationConfigure a resource-based policy: SolrConfigure a resource-based service: SolrEncrypting Data in TransitEnabling SSL