Creating Ranger policy to use in RAZ-enabled AWS environmentCloudera Docs
Creating Ranger policy to use in RAZ-enabled AWS environment
After you register the RAZ-enabled AWS environment, you can log in to Ranger to
        create the policies for granular access to the environment’s cloud storage location. To
        create the Ranger policy, you must first create the required S3 policy and then a Hive URL
        authorization policy, on an S3 path for the end user.

To create the required S3 policy on an S3 path for end user, perform the
                    following steps:


Navigate to the Ranger UI.


On the S3 tab, click
                                cm_s3.


Click Add New Policy in the top right
                            corner.


Provide the following policy details:


Enter Policy Name.
Enter an S3 Bucket name.
Provide a Path within the S3
                                    bucket.
Select users and permissions to assign to the end
                                    user. Only Read and
                                            Write permissions can be assigned
                                        to the end user. 

The following sample image shows the Create
                                    Policy page in Ranger UI to create an S3 policy on an
                                S3 path for an end user.






Click Add to save the policy. 



To create a Hive URL authorization policy on an S3 path for the end user,
                    perform the following steps:


Navigate to the Ranger UI.


On the Hadoop SQL tab, click Hadoop
                                SQL.


Click Add New Policy in the top right
                            corner.


Provide the policy details. The following sample image shows the policy
                            details: 


Enter Policy Name.
Enter the Hive URL authorization path in the
                                        url field, and enable the
                                        Recursive option.
Provide a Path within the S3
                                    bucket.
Select users and permissions to assign to the end
                                    user. noteOnly
                                            Read  permission can be assigned
                                        to the end user. 

The following sample image shows the Policy
                                    Details page in Ranger UI to create a Hive URL
                                authorization policy on an S3 path for an end user.






Click Add to save the policy. 




Parent topic: Ranger policy options for RAZ-enabled AWS environment