Creating a Data Hub cluster with custom pathCloudera Docs
Creating a Data Hub cluster with custom path
When you create a Data Hub cluster with custom paths for Data Hub clusters, your
        cluster might fail with an access exception. To resolve this issue, you must add the policy
        path to the default Zeppelin notebooks policy using Ranger.

Data Hub cluster creation fails and a Zeppelin exception is logged in the Cloudera
                Manager logs, if you create a Data Hub cluster with a custom path
                    <bucket>/custom-dh, overwriting the YARN location and
                Zeppelin notebook location to <bucket>/yarn-logs and
                    <bucket>/zeppelin-notebook respectively.
The following image shows the Create Cluster > Advanced Options > Cloud Storage page where you can optionally specify the base storage location used
                for YARN and Zeppelin:
Figure 1. Cloud Storage page


The following image shows the Zeppelin exception in the Cloudera Manager logs:
Figure 2. Zeppelin exception in Cloudera Manager logs


To resolve this issue, perform the following steps:


Add the policy path to the default Zeppelin notebooks
                    policy using Ranger.

The following image shows the options to add the policy path to the Zeppelin
                        notebooks policy in Ranger UI:
Figure 3. Policy path in Ranger UI




For YARN logs aggregation, add the following using Ranger: 



Add /yarn--logs/{USER} path to the
                                Default: Hadoop App Logs - user default
                            policy.
Add /yarn--logs path to the
                                Default: Hadoop App Logs default policy.

The following sample image shows the update required in the
                            Default: Hadoop App Logs - user default policy: 
Figure 4. Default: Hadoop App Logs - user default policy


The following sample image shows the update required in the
                            Default: Hadoop App Logs default policy: 
Figure 5. Default: Hadoop App Logs default policy




After adding the policies, perform the following steps:


In Cloudera Manager, re-run the failed commands.
After the commands run successfully, go to the Management Console > Data Hub Clusters page, and click Actions > Retry > Yes option.The operation continues from the last failed
                                step.




Parent topic: Cluster templates available in RAZ-enabled AWS environment