Introduction to RAZ on AWS environmentsCloudera Docs
Introduction to RAZ on AWS environments
CDP Public Cloud defaults to using cloud storage which might be challenging while
        managing data access across teams and individual users. The Ranger Authorization Service
        (RAZ) resolves this challenge by enabling Amazon S3 users to use fine-grained access
        policies and audit capabilities available in Apache Ranger similar to those used with HDFS
        files in an on-premises or IaaS deployment.
Many of the use cases that RAZ for S3 enables are cases where access control on
            files or directories is needed. Some examples include:
Per-user home directories.
Data engineering (Spark) efforts that require access to cloud storage
                    objects and directories. 
Data warehouse queries (Hive/Impala) that use external tables. 
Access to Ranger's rich access control policies such as date-based
                    access revocation, user/group/role-based controls, along with corresponding
                    audit.
Tag-based access control using the classification propagation feature
                    that originates from directories.

Prior to the introduction of RAZ, controlling access to S3 could be enforced at
            coarse-grained group level using IDBroker mappings. This required
            rearchitecting the implementation of important file-centric activities as well as
            admin-level access to both the AWS account and the CDP account. 
In HDP and CDH deployments, files and directories are protected with a
            combination of HDFS Access Control Lists (ACLs) (in CDH, HDP) and Ranger HDFS policies
            (in HDP). Similarly, in an AWS CDP Public Cloud environment with RAZ for S3 enabled,
            Ranger's rich access control policies can be applied to CDP's access to S3 buckets,
            directories, and files and can be controlled with admin-level access to CDP alone. 
importantIt is recommended that you do not setup
            IDBroker mapping for workload users in a RAZ-enabled AWS
            environment.
Supported use cases for RAZ in AWS environments
The core RAZ for AWS for Data Lakes and several Data Hub templates are available for
                production use. The following Data Hub cluster types are supported:
Data Engineering
Data Engineering HA
Data Engineering Spark3
Operational Database with SQL
Specifically, Hive, Spark, HBase, and Oozie are supported.
RAZ is fully integrated with the following CDP data services: 
Cloudera Data Flow (CDF)
Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)
Cloudera Machine Learning (CML)
Cloudera Operational Database (COD)

You can backup and restore the metadata maintained in the Data Lake services of
                RAZ-enabled environments. For more information, see Data Lake Backup and Restore.
importantIntegrations with some components are under
                technical preview or has limited availability. Contact your account team before you
                use RAZ for your production use cases.

Limitations to use RAZ in AWS environments
The following limitations and known issues have been identified and are under
                    development:
Currently, there is no automated way to enable RAZ in an existing CDP
                        environment that does not have RAZ enabled. 
RAZ integration is under technical preview for the following CDP
                            services:
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)
Integration with Data Hub Hue's File Browser

Solr, Kudu, and NiFi are not supported by RAZ.


Architecture diagram
The following architecture diagram shows how RAZ integrates and interacts with other
                components in a RAZ-enabled AWS environment:




