Using Zeppelin to Create RunbooksCloudera Docs
Using Zeppelin to Create
      Runbooks
Zeppelin enables data scientists and senior analysts to create workbooks for junior
      analysts that can be used as runbooks for recreatable investigations. These runbooks can be
      static, which require no input from the junior analyst, or dynamic, which require the junior
      analyst to enter or choose information. You can see an example of a static type of notebook in
      the Metron - YAF Telemetry note. This section provides instructions for creating both kinds of
      runbooks.

Click Create new note on the welcome page, or click the
                  Notebook menu and choose + Create new
                  note.

Type your commands into the blank paragraph in the new note.
To make your runbook dynamic, use one or more of the dynamic forms that Zeppelin
                  supports:
Text input form
Text input form with default value
Select form
Checkbox form

When you create a note, it appears in the list of notes on the left side of the
               home page and in the Notebook menu. By default, Zeppelin
               stores notes in the $ZEPPELIN_HOME/notebook folder.

Run your new code by clicking the triangle button in the cell that contains your
               code.
Zeppelin attempts to run the code and displays the status near the triangle
               button: PENDING, RUNNING, ERROR, or FINISHED. Zeppelin also displays another empty
               paragraph so you can add another command.

Continue adding commands until you've completed the runbook.

Choose the appropriate type of visualization for your code results from the
               settings toolbar below the code section of the paragraph.






If appropriate, notify the junior analyst about the runbook that he can clone and
               use.

The following examples provide sample paragraphs you might want to include in
            a runbook:
Top Talkers - InternalThis paragraph is static and requires no input from the
                  user.




Flows by hourThis paragraph is static and requires no input from the user.






Parent topic: Creating Runbooks Using Apache Zeppelin