Generating Hive statistics in Cloudera Data WarehouseCloudera Docs

Generating Hive statistics in Cloudera Data Warehouse

A cost-based optimizer (CBO) generates efficient query plans. Hive does not use the CBO
  until you generate column statistics for tables.  By default, Hive gathers only table statistics.
  You need to configure Hive to enable gathering of column statistics. 
The CBO, powered by Apache Calcite, is a core component in the Hive query processing engine.
   The CBO optimizes plans for executing a query, calculates the cost, and selects the least
   expensive plan to use. In addition to increasing the efficiency of execution plans, the CBO
   conserves resources.
How the CBO works
After parsing a query, a process converts the query to a logical tree (Abstract Syntax Tree)
    that represents the operations to perform, such as reading a table or performing a JOIN. Calcite
    applies optimizations, such as query rewrite, JOIN re-ordering, JOIN elimination, and deriving
    implied predicates to the query to produce logically equivalent plans. Bushy plans provide
    maximum parallelism. Each logical plan is assigned a cost that is based on distinct, value-based
    heuristics.
The Calcite plan pruner selects the lowest-cost logical plan. Hive converts the
   chosen logical plan to a physical operator tree,
   optimizes the tree, and converts the tree to a Tez job for execution on the Hadoop cluster.

Explain plans
You can generate explain plans by running the EXPLAIN query command. An explain plan shows you
    the execution plan of a query by revealing the operations that occur when you run the query.
    Having a better understanding of the plan, you might rewrite the query or change Tez
    configuration parameters.


Generate and view Apache Hive statistics in Cloudera Data WarehouseYou can use statistics to optimize queries for improved performance. The cost-based         optimizer (CBO) also uses statistics to compare query plans and choose the best one. By         viewing statistics instead of running a query, you can often get answers to your data         questions faster.Statistics generation and viewing commands in Cloudera Data WarehouseYou can manually generate table and column statistics, and then view statistics using     Hive queries. By default, Hive generates table statistics, but not column statistics, which you     must generate manually to make cost-based optimization (CBO) functional.