Introduction to CSP Community EditionCloudera Docs
Introduction to CSP Community Edition
The Community Edition of Cloudera Streams Processing (CSP) is a standalone deployment of
    Streams Messaging and Streaming Analytics. You can use this dockerized version Streams Messaging
    and Streaming Analytics to quickly set up, and try out real-time streams processors in your
    local environment using Apache Kafka, Schema Registry (SR), Streams Messaging Manager (SMM),
    Kafka Connect, Apache Flink, and SQL Stream Builder (SSB).




Apache Kafka
Apache Kafka supports millions of messages per second with low latency and high
          throughput, scaling elastically and transparently without downtime. It addresses a wide
          range of streaming data initiatives, enabling enterprises to keep up with customer demand,
          provide better services, and proactively manage risk.
Schema Registry
Schema Registry lets you manage, share, and support the evolution of all producer and
          customer schemas in a shared schema repository that allows applications to flexibly
          interact with each other across the Kafka landscape. It safely mitigates interruptions
          that occur due to schema mismatches.
Streams Messaging Manager
Streams Messaging Manager provides a single pane of glass view with end-to-end
          visibility into how data moves across Kafka clusters—among producers, brokers, topics, and
          consumers—allowing you to track data lineage and governance from edge to cloud. It also
          simplifies troubleshooting of Kafka environments with intelligent filtering and
          sorting.
Apache Flink
Apache Flink is a distributed processing engine and a scalable data analytics framework.
          You can use Flink to process data streams on a large scale to deliver real-time analytical
          insights.
SQL Stream Builder
SQL Stream Builder (SSB) is a comprehensive interactive user interface for creating
          stateful stream processing jobs using SQL powered by Apache Flink. By using SQL, you can
          simply and easily declare expressions that filter, aggregate, route, and otherwise mutate
          streams of data. SSB is a job management interface that you can use to compose and run SQL
          on streams, as well as to create durable data APIs for the results.

For more information about CSP as a product, and how CSP is implemented in Cloudera Data
      Platform (CDP), see the Stream Processing product page.

