Resource Planning for Data at Rest EncryptionCloudera Docs
Resource Planning for Data at Rest Encryption
High Availablity for Key Trustee Server and Ranger KMS 
For production environments, you must configure high availability for:

Key Trustee Server
Ranger KMS

Key Trustee Server and Ranger KMS HA Planning
For high availability, you must provision two dedicated Key Trustee Server hosts and at
        least two dedicated Ranger KMS hosts, for a minimum of four separate hosts. Do not run
        multiple Key Trustee Server or Ranger KMS services on the same physical host, and do not run
        these services on hosts with other cluster services. Doing so causes resource contention
        with other important cluster services and defeats the purpose of high availability. See
        "Data at Rest Encryption Reference Architecture" for more information.
The Ranger KMS workload is CPU intensive. Cloudera recommends using machines with
        capabilities equivalent to your NameNode hosts, with Intel CPUs that support AES-NI for
        optimum performance.
Make sure that each host is secured and audited. Only authorized key administrators should
        have access to them. Red Hat provides security guides for RHEL:

RHEL 7 Security Guide

For hardware sizing information, see "Data at Rest Encryption Requirements" for
        recommendations for each Cloudera Navigator encryption component.
For Cloudera Manager deployments, deploy Key Trustee Server in its own dedicated cluster.
        Deploy Ranger KMS in each cluster that uses Key Trustee Server. See "Data at Rest Encryption
        Reference Architecture" for more information.
For information about enabling Key Trustee Server high availability, refer to "Setting up
        Key Trustee Server High Availability".
For information about enabling Ranger KMS high availability, refer to "Installing Ranger
          KMS backed with a Key Trustee Server and HA".
Virtual Machine Considerations
If you are using virtual machines, make sure that the resources (such as virtual disks,
        CPU, and memory) for each Key Trustee Server and Ranger KMS host are allocated to separate
        physical hosts. Hosting multiple services on the same physical host defeats the purpose of
        high availability, because a single machine failure can take down multiple services.important

Each and every HDFS operation, even for non-encrypted data, will contact KMS. This
              impacts CPU requirements and must be considered when planning Key Management System
              and Key Trustee Server implementations.


To maintain the security of the cryptographic keys, make sure that all copies of the
        virtual disk (including any back-end storage arrays, backups, snapshots, and so on) are
        secured and audited with the same standards you apply to the live data.

Related informationData at Rest Encryption RequirementsData at Rest Encryption Reference ArchitectureRHEL 7 Security GuideInstalling Ranger KMS backed with a Key Trustee Server and HASetting up Key Trustee Server High Availability