Managing Re-encryption OperationsCloudera Docs
Managing Re-encryption Operations
There are various facets of the EDEK re-encryption process such as cancelling
    re-encryption, rolling keys during a re-encryption operation, and throttling re-encryption
    operations.
Cancelling Re-encryption 
Only users with the HDFS Superuser privilege can cancel the EDEK re-encryption after
            the operation has started.
To cancel a re-encryption: 

hadoop crypto -reencryptZone cancel -path <zone>


Rolling Keys During a Re-encryption Operation 
While it is not recommended, it is possible to roll the encryption zone key
            version on the KMS while a re-encryption of that encryption zone is already in progress
            in the NameNode. The re-encryption is guaranteed to complete with all DEKs re-encrypted,
            with a key version equal to or later than the encryption zone key version when the
            re-encryption command was submitted. This means that, if initially the key version is
            rolled from v0 to v1, then a re-encryption command was submitted. If later on the KMS
            the key version is rolled again to v2, then all EDEKs will be at least re-encrypted to
            v1. To ensure that all EDEKs are re-encrypted to v2, submit another re-encryption
            command for the encryption zone. 
Rolling keys during re-encryption is not recommended because of the potential negative
            impact on key management operations. Due to the asynchronous nature of re-encryption,
            there is no guarantee of when, exactly, the rolled encryption keys will take effect.
            Re-encryption can only guarantee that all EDEKs are re-encrypted at least on the EZ key
            version that existed when the re-encryption command is issued.

Throttling Re-encryption Operations
With the default operation settings, you will not typically need to throttle
            re-encryption operations.  However, in cases of excessive performance impact due to the
            re-encryption of large numbers of files, advanced users have the option of throttling
            the operation so that the impact on the HDFS NameNode and KT KMS are minimized. 
Specifically, you can throttle the operation to control the rate of the following:
The number of EDEKs that the NameNode should send to the KMS to re-encrypt in a
                batch (dfs.namenode.reencrypt.batch.size) 
The number of threads in the NameNode that can run concurrently to contact the
                KMS. (dfs.namenode.reencrypt.edek.threads)
Percentage of time the NameNode read-lock should be held by the re-encryption
                thread (dfs.namenode.reencrypt.throttle.limit.handler.ratio)
Percentage of time the NameNode write-lock should be held by the re-encryption
                thread (dfs.namenode.reencrypt.throttle.limit.updater.ratio)

You can monitor the HDFS NameNode heap and CPU usage from Cloudera Manager.


Parent topic: Re-encrypting Encrypted Data Encryption Keys (EDEKs)