Data at Rest Encryption RequirementsCloudera Docs
Data at Rest Encryption Requirements
Encryption comprises several components, each with its own requirements.Overview
Data at rest encryption protection can be applied at a number of levels within Hadoop:


OS filesystem-level
Network-level
HDFS-level (protects both data at rest and in transit)


For more information on the components, concepts, and architecture for encrypting data at
      rest, see "Encrypting Data at Rest".

Product Compatibility Matrix
See "Product Compatibility Matrix for Cloudera Navigator Encryption" for the
        individual compatibility matrices for each Cloudera Navigator encryption component.

Entropy Requirements
Cryptographic operations require entropy to ensure randomness.
You can check the available entropy on a Linux system by running the following
        command:cat /proc/sys/kernel/random/entropy_avail
The output displays the entropy currently available. Check the entropy several times to
        determine the state of the entropy pool on the system. If the entropy is consistently low
        (500 or less), you must increase it by installing rng-tools and starting
        the rngd service.
noteDue to a recent Linux kernel change the 'entropy_avail' reported by the kernel will always be
          256. This will lead to erroneous alerts being issued if you changed the default settings
          for 'Host Entropy Thresholds'. These values will need to be changed to reflect the 256
          value for 'entropy_avail'.
For RHEL 7, run the following
        commands:sudo yum install rng-tools
cp /usr/lib/systemd/system/rngd.service /etc/systemd/system/
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl start rngd
systemctl enable rngd
Make sure that the hosts running Key Trustee Server, Ranger KMS, and Navigator Encrypt have
        sufficient entropy to perform cryptographic operations.

Key Trustee Server Requirements
Recommended Hardware and Supported Distributions
Key Trustee Server must be installed on a dedicated server or virtual machine (VM) that is
        not used for any other purpose. The backing PostgreSQL database must be installed on the
        same host as the Key Trustee Server, and must not be shared with any other services. For
        high availability, the active and passive Key Trustee Servers must not share physical
        resources. See "Resource Planning for Data at Rest Encryption" for more
        information.
The recommended minimum hardware specifications are as follows:

Processor: 1 GHz 64-bit quad core
Memory: 8 GB RAM
Storage: 20 GB on moderate- to high-performance disk drives

For information on the supported Linux distributions, see "Product Compatibility Matrix for Cloudera Navigator Encryption".
Cloudera Manager Requirements
Installing and managing Key Trustee Server using Cloudera Manager requires Cloudera Manager
        5.4.0 and higher. Key Trustee Server does not require Cloudera Navigator Audit Server or
        Metadata Server.
umask Requirements
Key Trustee Server installation requires the default umask of
          0022.
Network Requirements
For new Key Trustee Server installations (5.4.0 and higher) and migrated upgrades (see
        "Cloudera Enterprise Upgrade Guide"> for
        more information), Key Trustee Server requires the following TCP ports to be opened for
        inbound traffic:

11371Clients connect to this port over HTTPS.
11381 (PostgreSQL)The passive Key Trustee Server connects to this port for database
            replication.

For upgrades that are not migrated to the CherryPy web server, the pre-upgrade port
        settings are preserved:

80Clients connect to this port over HTTP to obtain the Key Trustee Server public
            key.
443 (HTTPS)Clients connect to this port over HTTPS.
5432 (PostgreSQL)The passive Key Trustee Server connects to this port for database
            replication.

TLS Certificate Requirements
To ensure secure network traffic, Cloudera recommends obtaining Transport Layer Security
        (TLS) certificates specific to the hostname of your Key Trustee Server. To obtain the
        certificate, generate a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) for the fully qualified domain
        name (FQDN) of the Key Trustee Server host. The CSR must be signed by a trusted Certificate
        Authority (CA). After the certificate has been verified and signed by the CA, the Key
        Trustee Server TLS configuration requires:

The CA-signed certificate
The private key used to generate the original CSR
The intermediate certificate/chain file (provided by the CA)

Cloudera recommends not using self-signed certificates. If you use self-signed
        certificates, you must use the --skip-ssl-check parameter when registering
        Navigator Encrypt with the Key Trustee Server. This skips TLS hostname validation, which
        safeguards against certain network-level attacks. For more information regarding insecure
        mode, see "Registering Cloudera Navigator Encrypt with Key Trustee Server>Registration
        Options".

Ranger KMS Requirements
Recommended Hardware and Supported Distributions
The recommended minimum hardware specifications are as follows:

Processor: 1 GHz 64-bit quad core
Memory: 8 GB RAM
Storage: 20 GB on moderate- to high-performance disk drives

For information on the supported Linux distributions, see "Product Compatibility Matrix for Cloudera Navigator Encryption".
The Ranger KMS workload is CPU-intensive. Cloudera recommends using machines with
        capabilities equivalent to your NameNode hosts, with Intel CPUs that support AES-NI for
        optimum performance. Also, Cloudera strongly recommends that you enable TLS for both the
        HDFS and the Ranger services to prevent the passage of plain text key material between the
        KMS and HDFS data nodes.
Key HSM Requirements
The following are prerequisites for installing Navigator Key HSM:

Oracle Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 7 or higher with Java Cryptography Extension (JCE)
          Unlimited Strength Jurisdiction Policy Files:
JCE for Java SE 7
JCE for Java SE 8

A supported Linux distribution. See "Product Compatibility Matrix for Cloudera Navigator Encryption".
A supported HSM device:
SafeNet Luna
HSM firmware version: 6.2.1
HSM software version: 5.2.3-1

SafeNet KeySecure
HSM firmware version: 6.2.1
HSM software version: 8.0.1

Thales nSolo, nConnect
HSM firmware version: 11.4.0
Client software version: 2.28.9cam136


Key Trustee Server 3.8 or higherimportantYou must install Key HSM on the
            same host as Key Trustee Server.

Root access is required to install Navigator Key HSM.

Navigator Encrypt Requirements
Operating System Requirements

For supported Linux distributions, see "Product Compatibility Matrix for Cloudera Navigator Encryption".

Supported command-line interpreters:

sh (Bourne)
bash (Bash)
dash (Debian)

noteNavigator Encrypt does not support installation or use in
          chroot environments.
Network Requirements
For new Navigator Key Trustee Server (5.4.0 and higher) installations, Navigator Encrypt
        initiates TCP traffic over port 11371 (HTTPS) to the Key Trustee Server. 
For upgrades and Key Trustee Server versions lower than 5.4.0, Navigator Encrypt initiates
        TCP traffic over ports 80 (HTTP) and 443 (HTTPS) to the Navigator Key Trustee Server.
Internet Access
You must have an active connection to the Internet to download many package dependencies,
        unless you have internal repositories or mirrors containing the dependent packages.
Maintenance Window
Data is not accessible during the encryption process. Plan for system downtime during
        installation and configuration.
Administrative Access
To enforce a high level of security, all Navigator Encrypt commands require administrative
        (root) access (including installation and configuration). If you do not have administrative
        privileges on your server, contact your system administrator before proceeding.
Package Dependencies
Navigator Encrypt requires these packages, which are resolved by your distribution package
        manager during installation:

dkms
keyutils
ecryptfs-utils
libkeytrustee
navencrypt-kernel-module
openssl
lsof
gcc
cryptsetup

These packages may have other dependencies that are also resolved by your package manager.
        Installation works with gcc, gcc3, and
          gcc4.

Related informationProduct Compatibility Matrix for Cloudera Navigator
                            EncryptionEncrypting Data at RestResource Planning for Data at Rest Encryption