Configuring TLS/SSL for the KMSCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL for the KMS
You must configure specific TLS/SSL properties associated with the KMS.
Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by Cluster Administrator, Full
      Administrator)

Go to the KMS service.

Click Configuration.

In the Search field, type TLS/SSL to show the KMS TLS/SSL
          properties (in the Key Management Server Default Group > Security category).

Edit the following TLS/SSL properties according to your cluster configuration.



Property
Description



Enable TLS/SSL for Key Management Server
Encrypt communication between clients and Key Management Server using
                    Transport Layer Security (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer
                    (TLS/SSL)).


Key Management Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                    Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and
                    private key used for TLS/SSL. Used when Key Management Server is acting as a
                    TLS/SSL server. The keystore must be in JKS format.


Key Management Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                    Password
The password for the Key Management Server JKS keystore file.


Key Management Server Proxy TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store
                    File
The location on disk of the truststore, in .jks format, used to confirm the
                    authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that Key Management Server Proxy might connect
                    to. This is used when Key Management Server Proxy is the client in a TLS/SSL
                    connection. This truststore must contain the certificates used to sign the
                    services connected to. If this parameter is not provided, the default list of
                    well-known certificate authorities is used instead.


Key Management Server Proxy TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store
                    Password
The password for the Key Management Server Proxy TLS/SSL Certificate Trust
                    Store File. This password is not required to access the truststore; this field
                    can be left blank. This password provides optional integrity checking of the
                    file. The contents of truststores are certificates, and certificates are public
                    information.




Click Save Changes.

Return to the home page by clicking the Cloudera Manager logo.

Click the  icon that
          is next to any stale services to invoke the cluster restart wizard.

Click Restart Stale Services.

Click Restart Now.

Click Finish.


Parent topic: Securing the Key Management System (KMS)