Transparent Encryption Recommendations for ImpalaCloudera Docs
Transparent Encryption Recommendations for Impala
There are various recommendations to consider when configuring HDFS Transparent
    Encryption for Impala.
Recommendations


 If HDFS encryption is enabled, configure Impala to encrypt data
              spilled to local disk. 


 Limit the rename operations for internal tables once encryption
              zones are set up. Impala cannot do an ALTER TABLE
                RENAME operation to move an internal table from one
              database to another, if the root directories for those databases
              are in different encryption zones. If the encryption zone covers a
              table directory but not the parent directory associated with the
              database, Impala cannot do an ALTER TABLE RENAME
              operation to rename an internal table, even within the same
              database. 


 Avoid structuring partitioned tables where different partitions
              reside in different encryption zones, or where any partitions
              reside in an encryption zone that is different from the root
              directory for the table. Impala cannot do an
                INSERT operation into any partition that is not
              in the same encryption zone as the root directory of the overall
              table. 


 If the data files for a table or partition are in a different encryption zone than
            the HDFS trashcan, use the PURGE keyword at the end of the DROP
              TABLE or ALTER TABLE DROP PARTITION statement to delete the
            HDFS data files immediately. Otherwise, the data files are left behind if they cannot be
            moved to the trashcan because of differing encryption zones. This syntax is available in
            Impala 2.3 and higher. 



Steps
Start every impalad process with the
            --disk_spill_encryption=true flag set. This
          encrypts all spilled data using AES-256-CFB. Set this flag by
          selecting the Disk Spill Encryption checkbox in
          the Impala configuration (Impala
              service > Configuration > Category > Security).
importantImpala does not selectively
          encrypt data based on whether the source data is already encrypted in
          HDFS. This results in at most 15 percent performance degradation when
          data is spilled.

KMS ACL Configuration for Impala
Cloudera recommends making the impala user a member of the
          hive group, and following the ACL recommendations in KMS ACL
        Configuration for Hive.


Related informationKMS ACL Configuration for HiveParent topic: Configuring CDP Services for HDFS Encryption