Setting up the cost-based optimizer and statisticsCloudera Docs
Setting up the cost-based optimizer and statistics
You can use the cost-based optimizer (CBO) and statistics to develop efficient query
        execution plans that can improve performance. You must generate column statistics to make
        CBO functional.

In this task, you enable and configure the cost-based optimizer (CBO) and configure
                Hive to gather column statistics as well as table statistics for evaluating query
                performance. Column and table statistics are critical for estimating predicate
                selectivity and the cost of the plan. Certain advanced rewrites require column
                statistics.
 In this task, you check, and set the following properties:

hive.stats.autogather
Controls collection of table-level statistics.
hive.stats.fetch.column.statsControls collection of
                        column-level statistics.
hive.compute.query.using.statsInstructs Hive to use
                        statistics when generating query plans.

You can manually generate the
                table-level statistics for newly created tables and table partitions using the
                ANALYZE TABLE statement.



The following components are running: 
HiveServer
Hive Metastore 
Hive clients

Minimum Required Role: Configurator (also provided by Cluster Administrator, Full Administrator)



In Cloudera Manager > Clusters select the Hive service, for example, HIVE. 

On the Configuration tab, search for
                            hive.cbo.enable.



If the property is not visible in your version of Cloudera Manager, add the
                    property to Hive site using the Cloudera Manager Safety Valve (see links below).
                    Set the property to enabled.

Accept the default (enabled), or check to enable the
                        hive.cbo.enable property for the HiveServer Default
                    Group.

Search for and enable, if necessary,
                        hive.stats.fetch.column.stats.

Search for and enable, if necessary,
                        hive.compute.query.using.stats.

In Cloudera Manager > Clusters > Hive > Actions select Restart.


Related informationExample of using the Cloudera Manager Safety ValveCustom Configuration (about Cloudera Manager Safety Valve)Parent topic: Generating Hive statistics in Cloudera Data Warehouse