March 19, 2021Cloudera Docs
March 19, 2021
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
  changes:
Single existing Azure resource group
The option to use your existing Azure resource group is now available in CDP. This allows you
    to have your credential's role definition scoped to that particular resource group instead of
    the whole subscription. The option to "Select Resource Group" is available on the UI on the
     Region, Networking and Security page of the register environment wizard. The
    corresponding CLI JSON parameter is resourceGroupName and the cdp
     environments create-azure-environment CLI option to enable is
     --resource-group-name <value>. If these parameters are not present, CDP
    defaults to creating new resource groups. See updated Azure Permissions and Resource group in Azure Requirements documentation, and
    updated Register an Azure environment. 

Private endpoints for Azure database for PostgreSQL
The option to create private endpoints instead of service endpoints for Azure Database for
    PostgreSQL is now available when registering an Azure environment in CDP. The option to "Create
    Private Endpoints" is available on the UI in the "Network" section of the register environment
    wizard. The corresponding CLI JSON parameter is createPrivateEndpoints and the
     cdp environments create-azure-environment CLI option to enable private
    endpoints is --create-private-endpoints. The option is disabled by default. It
    can only be used with the single resource group feature and can only be enabled on subnets that
    have Azure network policies turned off. See Private endpoint for PostgreSQL.

Public Endpoint Access Gateway for AWS
During AWS environment registration, you can optionally enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway,
    which provides secure connectivity to UIs and APIs in Data Lake and Data Hub clusters deployed
    using private networking, allowing users to access these resources without complex changes to
    their networking or creating direct connections to cloud provider networks. See Public Endpoint Access Gateway.

Generate CLI command from the UI 
You can quickly obtain CDP CLI commands from the CDP web interface for creating the
     following:
Environment: From details of an existing environment or from the last page of the
      register environment wizard. See Obtain CLI commands for registering an
      environment.
Data Lake: From details of an existing Data Lake. See Understanding Data Lake details: Show CLI Command.
Credential: From details of an existing credential or from the create credential
      wizard. See Obtain CLI commands for creating a credential.
Data Hub: From details of an existing Data Hub or from the create Data Hub wizard. See
       Create a Data Hub cluster on AWS from an existing
       cluster and Create a Data Hub cluster on Azure from an existing
       cluster.


Disable cloud storage logging for an existing environment
By default, CDP sends collected service logs from VM nodes to the cloud storage that you
    provided for logs during environment registration. You can disable cloud storage logging for a
    specific environment, by navigating to environment details > Summary > Telemetry and turning off
    "Enable Cloud Storage Logging". Disabling this option will affect only newly created Data Hub
    clusters in that environment. See Enabling environment telemetry>Disable cloud storage
    logging for an existing environment.

Obtain your CDP tenant ID
You can now obtain your CDP tenant ID from CDP web interface,. See Obtain your CDP tenant ID.


Parent topic: Older releases