September 24, 2020Cloudera Docs
September 24, 2020
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following new features and
                behavioral changes:
New features


cdpcurl utility: The cdpcurl utility has been released to open source.
                                                This provides curl-like access to the Management
                                                  Console API as another alternative to
                                                the CDP CLI.



Behavioral changes

The option to stop and restart a Data Lake was removed. You
                                        should stop and restart your whole environment instead, as
                                        described in Stop and restart an
                                                environment.
The option to delete a Data Lake was removed from the Actions
                                        menu on the environment details page. When deleting an
                                        environment from the CDP UI, you no longer need to delete
                                        the environment's Data Lake separately. See updated Delete an
                                                environment documentation. 
The option to Check for Data Lake Upgrade was
                                        removed.
The options to Enable Workload Analytics and Enable
                                                Cluster Logs Collection were removed from the
                                                Actions menu on the environments details
                                        page. You can now control these options from the
                                                Management Console > Environments > Shared
                                                Resources > Telemetry (tenant-level setting), or
                                        you can set them during environment registration
                                        (environment-level setting). For updated instructions, see
                                                Enable workload
                                                analytics and cluster logs collection.
The option to Get FreeIPA certificate were removed from
                                        the environment's Actions menu and is now available from
                                        FreeIPA's Actions menu. To find the option, navigate to the
                                                Management Console > Environments > navigate
                                        to a specific environment > Summary > FreeIPA > Actions >
                                                Get FreeIPA certificate. 


New documentation


Performing user
                                                  sync

Configuring Azure
                                                  Active Directory identity federation in CDP

VNet and subnet
                                                  planning for Azure
Supported AWS
                                                  regions includes an updated list of AWS
                                                regions where Machine Learning can be deployed
Supported Azure
                                                  regions includes an updated list of Azure
                                                regions where Machine Learning can be deployed
Default security
                                                  group settings for Azure 




Parent topic: Older releases