What's newCloudera Docs
What's new
This section lists major features and updates for the Management Console
  service.

September 6, 2023
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
    changes:
Audit event archiving for GCP
You can now configure audit event archiving for Google Cloud Platform.
For more information, see  GCP setup for audit archiving.



August 30, 2023
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
    changes:
Data Lake database upgrade and default major version change
Newly-deployed Data Lake clusters on AWS or GCP with Cloudera Runtime 7.2.7 or above are
        now configured to use a PostgreSQL version 14 database by default.
Newly-deployed Data Lake clusters on Azure with Cloudera Runtime 7.2.7 or above will
        continue to use a PostgreSQL version 11 database by default.
The database for Data Lake clusters on AWS and GCP can now be upgraded to
        PostgreSQL version 14. If your AWS or GCP cluster requires an upgrade to PostgreSQL 14, you
        will receive a notification in the Management Console UI. 
Cloudera strongly recommends that the database upgrade to PostgreSQL 14 for
          AWS and GCP clusters is performed on all clusters running PostgreSQL version 11 by
          November 9, 2023.
A database upgrade to PostgreSQL 14 for Azure Data Lakes will be available in the
        future. Any Data Lake clusters on Azure that require a database upgrade will be upgraded
        from PostgreSQL 10 to PostgreSQL 11.
For more information, see  Upgrading Data Lake/Data Hub database



August 23, 2023
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
  changes:
Configure proxy for TLS interception and Deep Packet Inspection
After setting up a web proxy server in CDP, you can further configure it to perform TLS
    interception and Deep Packet Inspection (DPI). For instructions, see Setting up a web proxy for TLS inspection.

Setting a default identity provider in CDP
You can optionally set a default identity provider (IdP) in CDP. If you do so, CDP will use
    the default IdP instead of the oldest IdP. For instructions, see Setting a default identity provider in CDP.



July 20, 2023
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
    changes:
Enterprise Data Lakes
A new Data Lake shape called the enterprise Data Lake is now available for new deployments
        of Cloudera Runtime version 7.2.17. The enterprise Data Lake is a redefined version of
        medium duty Data Lakes that still offer failure resilience, but utilize resources and
        allocate memory more efficiently than a medium duty Data Lake at the same cost. For more
        information see Data Lake scale. 

Medium duty Data Lakes deprecated
Medium duty Data Lakes are deprecated as of Runtime 7.2.17. You can upgrade a medium duty
        Data Lake from 7.2.16 to 7.2.17, but will not be able to upgrade it further. You can create
        a new 7.2.17 medium duty Data Lake through the CDP CLI, but Cloudera recommends using the
        enterprise Data Lake for new deployments. The ability to create medium duty Data Lakes will
        be removed from both the UI and CLI from 7.2.18.



July 19, 2023
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
  changes:
CCM enabled by default in the UI
When you register a new AWS, Azure, or GCP environment in CDP via web interface, Cluster
    Connectivity Manager (CCM) is enabled by default and the option to disable it has been removed
    from the web interface. Also, CCM is now enabled by default in CDP CLI.

CCMv2 upgrade 
CCMv2 upgrade is available for all customers. If your existing CDP environment was created
    with CCMv1, you will see a notification in your environment details to upgrade to CCMv2. See
     Upgrading from CCMv1 to CCMv2. 



June 28, 2023
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
    changes:
Rolling Data Lake upgrades
With the release of Cloudera Runtime 7.2.17, you can now upgrade your Data Lake in a
        rolling manner. The rolling upgrade allows you to upgrade the Data Lake Runtime and OS
        without stopping attached Data Hubs or Data Services. This allows workloads to continue
        running during the Data Lake upgrade operation. See Rolling Data Lake Upgrades (Preview) for more
          information.noteYou need to contact Cloudera to have this feature enabled.

GCS fine-grained access control (Preview)
You can now register a CDP environment on GCP with RAZ enabled to use fine-grained access
        policies and audit capabilities available in Apache Ranger. See GCS Fine-Grained Access Control.noteYou need to
          contact Cloudera to have this feature enabled.

Cross-version compatibility for Data Lake backup and restore
You can take a backup of a Data Lake that runs one version of Cloudera Runtime and restore
        the backup to a Data Lake that runs a different version of Runtime. The backup version must
        be an earlier/lower version Runtime than the Data Lake that you are restoring to. Version
        limitations apply and a Ranger/HMS schema upgrade may be required. See Cross-version support for Data Lake backup and restore
         for more details.

Cross-version compatibility for Data Lakes and Data Hubs
Backward compatibility between Data Lakes and Data Hubs has been introduced with Cloudera
        Runtime 7.2.17. It is no longer required that you perform Data Hub upgrades in lock-step
        with the Data Lake upgrade. If your Data Hub is on Runtime version 7.2.16 or later, it is
        compatible with a Data Lake on a newer Runtime version (7.2.17+). You can independently
        upgrade your Data Hubs at a later time if you choose to, though it is not required.

AWS Middle East UAE region
You can now register a CDP environment and create Data Hubs in the AWS Middle East UAE
        region (me-central-1). See updated Supported AWS regions.

Data Lake upgrade validations for Python dependency
If you are planning to upgrade the Runtime version in your existing Data Lake
        clusters to 7.2.17 or higher versions, you may be required to perform an additional step
        before upgrading. 
You can verify whether your cluster is impacted by navigating to the
          Upgrade tab of your Data Lake cluster. If there is a warning
        message about missing prerequisites on the Upgrade page, you need to perform an additional
        upgrade step before moving to the 7.2.17 Cloudera Runtime version. The required steps may be
        different depending on your current Runtime version. See Data Lake upgrade for more details.



June 13, 2023
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
  changes:
Zone selection within a GCP region
During GCP environment registration you can now select a zone within the selected GCP region.
    For example, if you selected the us-west1 region, you can select one of its
    three zones: us-west1-a, us-west1-b, or
     us-west1-c.

CDP credit consumption and usage insights
CDP includes a user interface that allows you to monitor your credit consumption and download
    your consumption records. See CDP credit consumption and usage insights.


