September 21, 2021Cloudera Docs
September 21, 2021
This release of the Management Console service introduces the following
  changes:
New authorization model 
CDP introduces a new authorization model. The following table summarizes new, changed, and
     deprecated roles. The roles that are not mentioned in this table are unchanged.
Account roles 




Roles
Description



New account role



EnvironmentCreator



This is a new account-level role.


Deprecated account roles



EnvironmentAdmin


EnvironmentUser



These roles have been deprecated in June 2020 and have been removed from
          the official documentation.



Resource roles 




Roles
Description



New environment resource roles



DataSteward


DataHubCreator



These roles can be assigned on the scope of a specific environment.
         


New Data Hub resource role




DataHubAdmin (Technical Preview) 


This role can be assigned on the scope of a specific Data Hub. 


New shared resource role




SharedResouceUser



This role can be assigned on the scope of a specific shared resource
         (cluster template, credential, image catalog, proxy, or recipe). 


New resource role applicable to environments, Data Hubs, shared
           resources, and classic clusters




Owner 



Grants all permissions required to manage the resource in CDP including
          the ability to delete it, but does not grant any cluster-level access. The user creating
          the resource automatically gets the Owner role on that resource. 



Steps for assigning roles

The steps for assigning account roles and managing access to environments are
      unchanged. 
The steps for managing access to Data Hubs, shared resources (cluster templates,
      credentials, image catalogs, and recipes), and classic clusters are similar to the steps for
      managing access to environments: You can use the Manage access option from the resource
      details page. 

Updated documentation

For updated information about all built-in roles in CDP, refer to Understanding account-level roles and resource
              roles.
For updated instructions for how to manage access to resources, refer to Assigning a resource role to a user and
            Assigning a resource role to a group. 
Other new and updated documentation: 
Enabling admin and user access to environments

Enabling admin and user access to Data Hubs




Dots are now supported in group names
The list of supported characters in group names was extended to include dots. See updated
     documentation:
Creating a group
Synchronizing group membership


Improved AWS cloud storage setup documentation
AWS cloud storage setup documentation has been improved to include exact steps for creating
        the required S3 bucket, IAM policies, and IAM roles. See Minimal setup for cloud storage and Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud storage .


Parent topic: Older releases