Configuring Key Trustee Server High Availability Using Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring Key Trustee Server High Availability Using Cloudera Manager


 


Pick one:


For new installations, use the Set up HDFS Data At Rest
                                Encryption wizard and follow the instructions in Enabling
                                HDFS Encryption Using the Wizard. When prompted, make sure that
                            the Enable High Availability option is selected.


If you already have a Key Trustee Server service, and want to enable
                            high availability, see Adding a Role Instance for the Key Trustee
                            Server service instead to add the Passive Key Trustee Server and Passive
                            Database roles.



noteYou must assign the Key Trustee Server and Database roles to the
                        same host. Assign the Active Key Trustee Server and Active Database roles to
                        one host, and the Passive Key Trustee Server and Passive Database roles to a
                        separate host.

After completing the Add Role Instances wizard, the Passive Key
                    Trustee Server and Passive Database roles fail to start. Complete the following
                    manual actions to start these roles:

Stop the Key Trustee Server service (Key Trustee Server service > Actions > Stop).

Run the Set Up Key Trustee Server Database command (Key Trustee Server service > Actions > Set Up Key Trustee Server Database).

Run the following command on the Active Key Trustee Server:

sudo rsync -zcav --exclude .ssl /var/lib/keytrustee/.keytrustee root@keytrustee02.example.com:/var/lib/keytrustee/.
Replace keytrustee02.example.com with the hostname of the
                        Passive Key Trustee Server.


Run the following command on the Passive Key Trustee Server:

sudo ktadmin init


Start the Key Trustee Server service (Key Trustee Server service > Actions > Start).

importantStarting or restarting the Key Trustee Server service
                        attempts to start the Active Database and Passive Database roles. If the
                        Active Database is not running when the Passive Database attempts to start,
                        the Passive Database fails to start. If this occurs, manually restart the
                        Passive Database role after confirming that the Active Database role is
                        running.


Enable synchronous replication (Key Trustee Server service > Actions > Setup Enable Synchronous Replication in HA mode).

Restart the Key Trustee Server service (Key Trustee Server service > Actions > Restart).


Parent topic: Setting Up Key Trustee Server High Availability