Managing Key Trustee Server OrganizationsCloudera Docs
Managing Key Trustee Server Organizations
Organizations allow you to configure Key Trustee for use in a multi-tenant environment.
    Using the keytrustee-orgtool utility, you can create organizations and administrators for
    multiple organizations. Organization administrators can then approve or deny the registration of
    clients, depending on the registration method.
The keytrustee-orgtool Utility
keytrustee-orgtool is a command-line utility for
        administering organizations. The keytrustee-orgtool
        command must be run as the root user.
The following table explains the various
          keytrustee-orgtool commands and parameters. Run
          keytrustee-orgtool --help to view this information at
        the command line.
Table 1. Usage for keytrustee-orgtool

Operation
Usage
Description



Add
keytrustee-orgtool add [-h] –n
                    name –c
                  contacts
Adds a new organization and administrators for the
                organization.


List
keytrustee-orgtool list
Lists current organizations, including the authorization
                secret, all administrators, the organization creation date, and
                the organization expiration date.


Disable client
keytrustee-orgtool disable-client [-h]
                  -–fingerprint fingerprint
Disables a client that has already been activated by the
                organization administrator.


Enable client
keytrustee-orgtool enable-client [-h] –-fingerprint
                    fingerprint
Enables a client that has requested activation but has not
                yet been approved by the organization administrator.


Set authorization Code
keytrustee-orgtool set-auth [-h] –n
                    name –s
                  secret
Sets the authorization code to a new string, or to blank to
                allow automatic approvals without the code.



Create Organizations
Each new Key Trustee tenant needs its own organization. You can create
        new organizations using the keytrustee-orgtool add
        command. For example, to create a new organization for the Disaster
        Recovery group and add two administrators, Finn and Jake: 
keytrustee-orgtool add -n disaster-recov -c finn@example.com,jake@example.com
When adding organizations:
Do not use spaces or special characters in the organization name.
            Use hyphens or underscores instead.
Do not use spaces between email addresses (when adding multiple
            administrators to an organization). Use a comma to separate email
            addresses, without any space (as shown in the example above).

Each contact email address added when creating the organization receives a notification
        email, as detailed below.
Once an organization exists, use the keytrustee-orgtool
          add command to add new administrators to the organization.
        For example, to add an administrator to the
          disaster-recov organization:
        keytrustee-orgtool add -n disaster-recov -c marceline@example.com

noteYou cannot remove contacts from an organization with the
          keytrustee-orgtool utility. 

List Organizations
After creating an organization, verify its existence with the
          keytrustee-orgtool list command. This command lists
        details for all existing organizations. The following is the entry for
        the disaster-recov organization created in the
        example:"disaster-recov": {
           "auth_secret": "/qFiICsyYqMLhdTznNY3Nw==",
           "contacts": [
            "finn@example.com",
            "jake@example.com"
        ],
        "creation": "2013-12-02T09:55:21",
        "expiration": "9999-12-31T15:59:59",
        "key_info": null,
        "name": "disaster-recov",
        "state": 0,
        "uuid": "xY3Z8xCwMuKZMiTYJa0mZOdhMVdxhyCUOc6vSNc9I8X"
    }

Change the Authorization Code
When an organization is created, an authorization code is automatically
        generated. When you run the keytrustee-orgtool list
        command, the code is displayed in the auth_secret
        field. To register with a Key Trustee Server, the client must have the
        authorization code along with the organization name. To set a new
          auth_secret, run the following
        command:keytrustee-orgtool set-auth -n disaster-recov -s ThisISAs3cr3t!
Run the keytrustee-orgtool list command again, and
        confirm the updated auth_secret
        field:"disaster-recov": {
          "auth_secret": "ThisISAs3cr3t!",
          "contacts": [
            "finn@example.com",
            "jake@example.com"
        ],
        "creation": "2013-12-02T09:55:21",
        "expiration": "9999-12-31T15:59:59",
        "key_info": null,
        "name": "disaster-recov",
        "state": 0,
        "uuid": "xY3Z8xCwMuKZMiTYJa0mZOdhMVdxhyCUOc6vSNc9I8X"
    }
If you do not want to use an authorization code, set the
          auth_secret field to an empty
        string:keytrustee-orgtool set-auth -n disaster-recov -s ""
Cloudera recommends requiring an authorization code.

Notification Email and GPG Keys
Whenever an administrator is added to an organization, the Key Trustee
        Server sends an automated email message (subject: “KeyTrustee Contact
        Registration”) to the newly added
        administrator:
Hello, this is an automated message from your Cloudera keytrustee Server.

Welcome to Cloudera keytrustee! You have been listed as an administrator contact
for keytrustee services at your organization [test-org]. As an administrator,
you may be contacted to authorize the activation of new keytrustee clients.

We recommend that you register a GPG public key for secure administration of
your clients. To do so, visit the link below and follow the instructions.

https://keytrustee01.example.com:11371/?q=CnRV6u0nbm7zB07BQEpXCXsN0QJFBz684uC0lcHMoWL

This link will expire in 12 hours, at Thu Sep  3 00:08:25 2015 UTC.

Cloudera recommends that an organization's administrators: 
Register the GPG public key by following the link contained in the
            notification email. Registering the GPG public key is optional, but
            if you choose to register your public key:
Complete the process within 12 hours, before the link expires. 
Upload the entire key, including the BEGIN and END strings, as
                shown here:
                
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Version: GnuPG v1.2.1 (GNU/Linux)
Comment: For info see http://www.gnupg.org

mQGiBDkHP3URBACkWGsYh43pkXU9wj/X1G67K8/DSrl85r7dNtHNfLL/ewil10k2
q8saWJn26QZPsDVqdUJMOdHfJ6kQTAt9NzQbgcVrxLYNfgeBsvkHF/POtnYcZRgL
tZ6syBBWs8JB4xt5V09iJSGAMPUQE8Jpdn2aRXPApdoDw179LM8Rq6r+gwCg5ZZa
. . .
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----



Import the Key Trustee Server’s public GPG key to verify that the
            server is the sender.

The organization's administrators are notified by email when new clients are registered to
        the Key Trustee Server using the mail transfer agent (as discussed in Configuring a Mail
          Transfer Agent for Key Trustee Server). However, if the server does not have access to
        email, you can use a local system mail address, such as username@hostname,
        where hostname is the system hostname and username is a
        valid system user. If you use a local system email address, be sure to regularly monitor the
        email box.


Related informationConfiguring a Mail Transfer Agent for Key Trustee Server