Restore Key Trustee Server in package-based installationsCloudera Docs
Restore Key Trustee Server in package-based installations
How to restore a package-deployed Key Trustee Server database from a
        backup.

These instructions apply to Key Trustee Servers deployed using a package. For
                parcel-based deployments, see Restore Key Trustee Server in parcel-based
                    installations for more information.
The following procedures assume the default database port and location; if you
                modified these settings during installation, replace the database and port with your
                custom values.
If the Key Trustee Server host has failed completely, remove the host from the
                cluster and add a new host using Cloudera Manager:
importantMake sure to install the same operating system and Key Trustee
                Server versions as the failed host.


After you have provisioned a new host and installed Key Trustee Server (or if
                    you are restoring the database or configuration on the original host), restore
                    the database and configuration directory.
                    
Backups created using...
ktbackup.sh script
See Restore Key Trustee Server from ktbackup.sh
                            backups

pg_dump command
Continue below


If your backups were created manually using the pg_dump
                    command, do the following:


Copy or move the backup files (keytrustee-db.zip and
                                keytrustee-conf.zip) to the Key Trustee Server
                            host.


Change the file ownership on the backup files to
                                keytrustee:keytrustee:

sudo chown keytrustee:keytrustee /path/to/keytrustee*.zip



Restore the Key Trustee Server database:

su - keytrustee
unzip -p /path/to/keytrustee-db.zip | psql -p 11381 -d keytrustee
If the zip file is encrypted, you are prompted for the password to
                                decrypt the file.



Restore the Key Trustee Server configuration directory:

cd /var/lib/keytrustee
unzip /path/to/keytrustee-conf.zip
If the zip file is encrypted, you are prompted for the password to
                                decrypt the file.



Start the Key Trustee Server service:


RHEL 6-compatible: $ sudo service keytrusteed
                                        start
RHEL 7-compatible: $ sudo systemctl start
                                        keytrusteed




Remove the backup files (keytrustee-db.zip and
                                keytrustee-conf.zip) from the Key Trustee Server
                            host.




Related informationRestore Key Trustee Server in parcel-based installationsRestore Key Trustee Server from ktbackup.sh backupsParent topic: Restoring Navigator Key Trustee Server