Key Trustee Server OverviewCloudera Docs
Key Trustee Server Overview
An overview of Navigator Key Trustee Server and its architecture.
Key Trustee Server Overview
key Trustee Server is an enterprise-grade virtual safe-deposit box that stores and manages
        cryptographic keys and other security artifacts. With Navigator Key Trustee Server,
        encryption keys are separated from the encrypted data, ensuring that sensitive data is still
        protected if unauthorized users gain access to the storage media.
Key Trustee Server protects these keys and other critical security objects from
        unauthorized access while enabling compliance with strict data security regulations. For
        added security, Key Trustee Server can integrate with a hardware security module (HSM). 
In conjunction with the Ranger KMS, Navigator Key Trustee Server can serve as a backing key
        store for HDFS transparent encryption, providing enhanced security and scalability over the
        file-based Java KeyStore used by the default Hadoop Key Management Server.
Cloudera Navigator Encrypt also uses Key Trustee Server for key storage and management.

Key Trustee Server Architecture
Key Trustee Server is a secure object store. Clients register with Key Trustee Server, and
        are then able to store and retrieve objects with Key Trustee Server. The most common use
        case for Key Trustee Server is storing encryption keys to simplify key management and enable
        compliance with various data security regulations, but Key Trustee Server is agnostic about
        the actual objects being stored.
All interactions with Key Trustee Server occur over a TLS-encrypted HTTPS connection.
Key Trustee Server does not generate encryption keys for clients. Clients generate
        encryption keys, encrypt them with their private key, and send them over a TLS-encrypted
        connection to the Key Trustee Server. When a client needs to decrypt data, it retrieves the
        appropriate encryption key from Key Trustee Server and caches it locally to improve
        performance. This process is demonstrated in the following diagram:

The most common Key Trustee Server clients are Navigator Encrypt and Key Trustee KMS.
When a Key Trustee client registers with Key Trustee Server, it generates a unique
        fingerprint. All client interactions with the Key Trustee Server are authenticated with this
        fingerprint. You must ensure that the file containing this fingerprint is secured with
        appropriate Linux file permissions. The file containing the fingerprint is
          /etc/navencrypt/keytrustee/ztrustee.conf for Navigator Encrypt clients,
        and /var/lib/kms-keytrustee/keytrustee/.keytrustee/keytrustee.conf for Key
        Trustee KMS.
Many clients can use the same Key Trustee Server to manage security objects. For example,
        you can have several Navigator Encrypt clients using a Key Trustee Server, and also use the
        same Key Trustee Server as the backing store for Key Trustee KMS (used in HDFS
        encryption).


Key Trustee Server System Requirements