Configuring ImpalaCloudera Docs
Configuring Impala
You must review and configure the mandatory and recommended settings if you installed
    Impala without Cloudera Manager or if you want to customize your environment after installing
    Impala. If you installed Impala using Cloudera Manager, some of these configurations are
    completed automatically.
In some cases, depending on the level of Impala, CDP, and Cloudera
      Manager, you might need to add particular component configuration details
      in one of the free-form fields on the Impala configuration pages in
      Cloudera Manager.

You must enable short-circuit reads, whether or not Impala was
        installed through Cloudera Manager. This setting goes in the Impala
        configuration settings, not the Hadoop-wide settings.
If you installed Impala in an environment that is not managed by
        Cloudera Manager, you must enable block location tracking, and you can
        optionally enable native checksumming for optimal performance.

Short-Circuit Reads
Enabling short-circuit reads allows Impala to read local data directly
        from the file system. This removes the need to communicate through the
        DataNodes, improving performance. This setting also minimizes the number
        of additional copies of data. Short-circuit reads requires
          libhadoop.so (the Hadoop Native Library) to be
        accessible to both the server and the client. You must install it from
        an .rpm, .deb, or parcel to use
        short-circuit local reads. note If you use Cloudera Manager, you can
          enable short-circuit reads through a checkbox in the user interface
          and that setting takes effect for Impala as well. 

To Enable Short-Circuit Reads
You can enable short-circuit reads through a checkbox available under Configuration tab for both Impala and HDFS.

        In Cloudera Manager > Clusters select the Impala service, for example, IMPALA.
      
On the Configuration tab, search for
          dfs.client.read.shortcircuit.
Accept the default (enabled), or check to enable the
          dfs.client.read.shortcircuit property to read the HDFS file blocks directly.
Do the above for HDFS service too by clicking Cloudera Manager > Clusters and by selecting the HDFS service.
Save the changes and Restart the service.


To configure DataNodes for short-circuit reads:


On all Impala nodes, configure the following attributes from the HDFS service as shown: 
In Cloudera Manager > Clusters select the HDFS service, for example, HDFS.
On the Configuration tab, search for
                dfs.domain.socket.path and set the attribute.
Search for and set the attribute, if necessary,
                dfs.client.file-block-storage-locations.timeout.millis.
Search for and set the attribute, if necessary,
                dfs.datanode.hdfs-blocks-metadata.enabled


 After applying these changes, restart
          all DataNodes. 


Block Location Tracking
 Enabling block location metadata allows Impala to know which disk data
        blocks are located on, allowing better utilization of the underlying
        disks. Impala will not start unless this setting is enabled. 

To enable block location tracking:


 For each DataNode, enable the following attribute dfs.datanode.hdfs-blocks-metadata.enabled file:

          
In Cloudera Manager > Clusters select the HDFS service, for example, HDFS.
On the Configuration tab, search for
                dfs.datanode.hdfs-blocks-metadata.enabled and enable the attribute
              if not already enabled.


After applying these changes, restart
          all DataNodes.


Native Checksumming
 Enabling native checksumming causes Impala to use an optimized native
        library for computing checksums, if that library is available. 

To enable native checksumming:

 If you installed CDP from packages, the native checksumming library is
        installed and setup correctly, and no additional steps are required. 
If you installed by other means, native checksumming may not be
        available due to missing shared objects. Finding the message
          "Unable to load native-hadoop library for your platform...
          using builtin-java classes where applicable" in the Impala
        logs indicates native checksumming may be unavailable. 
To enable native checksumming, you must build and install
          libhadoop.so (the Hadoop Native Library). 


