Back up and upgrade Ambari infra and Ambari Log SearchCloudera Docs
Back up and upgrade Ambari infra and Ambari Log Search
The Ambari Infra Solr instance is used to index data for Atlas, Ranger, and Log
        Search. The version of Solr used by Ambari Infra in Ambari 2.6.2.x is Solr 5. The version of
        Solr used by Ambari Infra in Ambari 7.1.x.x is Solr 8. When moving from Solr 5 to Solr 8
        indexed data must be backed up from Solr 5, migrated, and restored into Solr 8 as there are
        on-disk format changes, and collection-specific schema changes.
The Ambari Infra Solr components must also be upgraded. Scripts are available to do both, and are explained below.

This process will be broken up into four steps:
Generate Migration Config
The migration utility requires some basic information about your cluster and this step generates a configuration file that captures that information.
Back up Ambari Infra Solr Data
This process backs up all indexed data either to a node-local disk, shared disk (NFS mount), or HDFS filesystem.
Remove existing collections and Upgrade Binaries
This step removes the Solr 5 collections, upgrades Ambari Infra to Solr 8,
                and creates the new collections with the upgraded schema required by the HDP
                intermediate bits services. This step also upgrades LogSearch binaries if they are
                installed.
Migrate and Restore
This step migrates the backed up data to the new format required by Solr 8
                and restores the data into the new collections. This step is completed after the HDP
                intermediate bits upgrade has been completed in the Post-upgrade Steps section of
                the upgrade guide


Generate migration configurationThe utility used in this process is included in the ambari-infra-solr-client package. This package must be upgraded before the utility can be run. To do this:Back up Ambari Infra Solr dataAfter the configuration file is generated, you must review the ini         file created by the process. Remove Existing Collections and Upgrade BinariesOnce the data has been backed up, the old collections need to be deleted, and the         Ambari Infra Solr, and Log Search (if installed) components need to be upgraded.Parent topic: Backing up Ambari infra data