Pre-transition stepsCloudera Docs
Pre-transition steps
From Ambari configurations, collect passwords of databases, keystores, and IDM services
    for components that are not part of the transition. This information will help in starting the
    services in Cloudera Manager after transition.
noteThe AM2CM tool does not migrate the Ambari Infra service to Cloudera Manager. However, the
      tool adds a Solr service in place of Ambari Infra to the Cloudera Manager-managed CDP cluster.
      The tool does not migrate Ambari Infra configurations and data to Solr in Cloudera
      Manager.
important

Backup custom files from /etc/hadoop/ in the HDP cluster. For
          example, /etc/hadoop/conf/topology_script.py
Ensure no components or hosts are in decommissioned state.
        
Ambari Metrics will not be migrated from Ambari to Cloudera Manager.
If are using the AM2CM tool http://archive.cloudera.com/am2cm/1.x/am2cm-1.0.0.0-58.tar.gz, then this AM2CM tool supports: 
HDFS (HA), YARN (HA), HIVE (HA), Zookeeper (HA), HBase (HA), Oozie (HA)
Spark, MR2, Tez, Sqoop, Livy, Kafka, CM 

The AM2CM 2.0.0.0 tool supports DellEMC PowerScale ISILON migration.


important For  log4j configuration migrations, AM2CM tool migrates only log file
      names, location, backup index , size, and logging level.  All other details will not be
      migrated or translated. 
Knox SSO on Ambari and Cloudera Manager: After you upgrade your cluster with Knox SSO and proxy enabled, the post upgrade Cloudera Manager tests fail because it is going through Knox SSO. The workaround is to disable the Ambari SSO before migrating the cluster because Ambari- specific configurations are not migrated to Cloudera Manager. You must explicitly enable SSO in Cloudera Manager after migration. For more information, see Proxy Cloudera Manager through Apache Knox.

DatabasesBefore you start upgrading from Ambari HDP to Cloudera Manager CDP Private Cloud Base, you must ensure     that you have a backup of the following component databases: Hive Metastore, Ranger, and     Oozie.KerberosPrior to installing Kerberos on Cloudera Manager, you must collect the details from the     Kerberos installation in Ambari.Atlas migrationPerform the pre-transition steps for Atlas.HDFSPerform the following pre-transition steps.SparkRun the following commands on all the hosts where spark components (Spark 2 History         Server, Livy for Spark2 Server, and Spark2 Client) are installed to take the         backup.RangerConfigure Ranger in Cloudera Manager-managed CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.Kerberos - Optional taskDekerberize the Ambari HDP cluster and kerberize the Cloudera Manager cluster.  SolrThe AM2CM tool does not migrate Ambari Infra Solr configuration and data to Cloudera         Manager. However, it adds a new Solr service. To take a backup, perform the following steps         after the transition. Parent topic: Transitioning to Cloudera Manager