CDP Upgrade ReadinessCloudera Docs
CDP Upgrade Readiness
In preparation for the upgrade, review the cluster environment requirements. You must
        also be familiar with the new features, behavior changes, and impact of the upgrade on
        existing configurations before the upgrade. 
Your Cloudera Account team can help you assess the impact of the following with respect
            to your upgrade. Cloudera will work with you to ensure your cluster is ready and meets
            all the criteria.

Cluster environment readiness - latest
                supported versions
Ensure supported Operating System, HDP stack, database and java JDK versions
                        are up-to-date and supported. 
See the upgrade documentation to ensure that your environments are ready for
                        the upgrade. 

On removed components, sevices, and functionalities, see Hive unsupported interfaces and features,
                    HDP Core component version changes, and
                    Changes to Ambari and HDP services.
Changes in behaviour:
You need to do a number of migration-related tasks due to semantic changes,
                        and a couple of syntax changes in Hive 3, for example db.table references
                        and DROP CASCADE, might require changes to your applications. 
Spark and Hive tables interoperate using the Hive Warehouse Connector and
                        Spark Direct Reader to access ACID managed tables. You can access external
                        tables from Spark directly using SparkSQL. 

Downtime:
In-place upgrades will require downtime and automation of the tasks will
                        limit the extent of the downtime
Migrate to new cluster options may limit downtime.

HDP Search
The version of Solr has moved directly from Solr v. 5.x to v 8.4.1. Solr
                        does not support migrations or upgrades greater than one version and
                        therefore consideration needs to be given on how to solve the upgrade to HDP
                        Search Solr indexes to the latest version.
Note that CDP stores its indexes in HDFS unlike HDP Search which typically
                        stores them in files on the local file system. 

Ports - Reset the old ports to standard Cloudera Manager ports. It simplifies the
                Cloudera Manager managed CDP Private Cloud Base environment for better future
                support and standards.
Network multihoming is not supported in CDP. If the HDP cluster is configured for
                multihomed networks, then you must reconfigure to disable that. For more
                information, see Networking and Security Requirements.
Third-party application readiness - Ensure that the third-party software products
                you are integrating with are certified to work with the HDP intermediate bits and
                    CDP Private Cloud Base. 
Bespoke configuration - Consider the impact of upgrading on any bespoke applications and customizations either to or integrating with the HDP platform. For example, devops integration tooling, monitoring, and so on. 
Ambari mpacks are not all compatible with HDP 7.1.x and CDP 7.1.x (CSDs are the
                Cloudera Manager equivalent of mpacks)
Not all Management Packs are compatible with the HDP intermediate bits. Cloudera Support can help you assess the feasibility of your upgrade if you have Management Packs other than HDF installed.


Parent topic: HDP to CDP Upgrade Overview