Kerberos clusterCloudera Docs
Kerberos cluster
To perform an HDP intermediate bits upgrade using Ambari, your kerberized cluster
        must meet certain prerequisites.

importantFor a Kerberized cluster, you must review and configure your KDC: 
KDC Admin Credentials: The Ambari Server adds new components as
                            a part of the HDP 2.6.5.x to HDP intermediate bits upgrade and needs to
                            be configured to enable password encryption and saving the KDC admin
                            credentials so that necessary principals can be created. For steps on
                            how to do this, see Encrypt Database and LDAP
                                    Passwords in Ambari, Managing Admin
                                    Credentials, and Authentication and Kerberos Issues.
KDC Admin Host FQDN: Ensure that the KDC Admin host is set to a
                            fully qualified domain name (FQDN) and not an IP address. You can check
                            this setting by going to Services > Kerberos > Configs > KDC
                        Hosts
KDC kadmin principal: The MIT KDC integration in Ambari 7.1.x.x
                            has been improved to connect more securely with the Kerberos
                            Administration server (kadmind). This increased security expects a
                            Kerberos admin service principal to be present with a specifically
                            formatted principal name. The format expected is
                            kadmin/fully.qualified.kdc.hostname@REALM. This expectation is a
                            behavior change from previous versions of Ambari, where having such a
                            Kerberos admin service principal was not required. This principal is
                            present by default in most MIT KDC installations, but some customers
                            have reported that this principal does not exist in their KDC. Due to
                            this, it is recommended that before upgrading a kerberized cluster to
                            Ambari 7.1.x.x, you ensure this principal exists in your KDC
                            database.



Parent topic: HDP Prerequisites