Before upgrading any clusterCloudera Docs
Before upgrading any cluster
To perform an HDP intermediate bits upgrade using Ambari, your cluster must meet
        certain prerequisites. Meeting these prerequisites is essential for Ambari to know that the
        cluster is in a healthy operating mode and can successfully manage the upgrade
        process.
For any Cluster
Disk Space: Be sure to have adequate space on /usr/hdp for
            the target HDP version. Each complete install of an HDP version occupies about 5 GB of
            disk space.
Ambari Agent Heartbeats: All Ambari Agents must be communicating and heartbeating to Ambari Server. Any hosts that are not heartbeating must be in Maintenance mode.
Hive Upgrade: The upgrade process does not back up the Hive Metastore, nor does it compact ACID tables. Before upgrading Hive, you must:
        
Manually back up your Hive metastore database after using the pre-upgrade tool, described later, and before upgrading.
If you have ACID tables in your Hive metastore database, enable ACID operations using Ambari Web or set Hive configuration properties to enable ACID.
                noteYou
                    must remove the components that are unsupported in CDP Private Cloud Base.
                    For more information, see HDP Core component version changes. If you are not
                    using a component in the CDP cluster, then you must remove them. The unused
                    component extends the time and complexity of the HDP to CDP
                    upgrade.

Host Maintenance Mode
The following two scenarios are checked:

Any hosts in Maintenance mode must not be hosting any Service Master Components.
Hosts running Worker Components display a warning if they are in Maintenance mode. You can proceed with the upgrade. But these hosts will not be upgraded. Before finalising the upgrade, you must delete these hosts from the cluster.

Service Maintenance Mode: No services can be in Maintenance mode, except for Ambari Metrics System, SmartSense, and Log Search.
Services Started: All services must be started, except for Ambari Metrics System, SmartSense, and Log Search.
Service Checks: All service checks must pass. Be sure to run Service Actions > Run Service Check on all services (and remediate if necessary) prior to attempting an HDP upgrade.
        
All Prior Upgrades are Finalized: Any prior upgrade started with Ambari must be finalized.
        

Parent topic: HDP Prerequisites