Perform express upgradeCloudera Docs
Perform express upgrade
You must use the Express Upgrade method to upgrade your cluster from HDP 2.6.5.x to
        HDP intermediate bits.

Ambari checks that your cluster meets prerequisites. A dialog displays the
                    results:



If any required prerequisites are not met, the result displays an
                                error.
 You cannot proceed with the upgrade until you make the appropriate
                                corrections and return to Perform Upgrade again.


If any optional prerequisites are not met, the result displays a
                                warning.
 You may proceed with the upgrade.


Ambari displays a list of configuration changes that occur
                                during the upgrade.




When the prerequisite checks complete, the upgrade starts. The time required to perform the upgrade depends on many factors. As part of the upgrade process, each component in the cluster restarts in a serial fashion. The stop/start times contribute to the total upgrade time.

The upgrade process includes the following stages. Some stages require that you complete an action during normal operation.
                    If any stage fails, the upgrade stops and prompts you for action.



Stage
Description
Action required


Prepare Upgrade
You should stop all apps on YARN queues, and
                                        deactivate & kill all running Storm topologies. If you
                                        have any applications running on Slider, it is recommended
                                        to stop them, since Slider will be removed as part of the
                                        Upgrade process.
Perform the actions to prepare for the
                                        upgrade.


Stop Components for High-Level Services
This will stop all components for High-Level
                                        Services. This includes all master components except
                                        those of HDFS, HBase, ZooKeeper and Ranger.
None


Perform Backups
This step prompts you to confirm that you have
                                        taken proper backups before proceeding.
You must acknowledge the prompt for database
                                        backups.


Stop Components for Core Service
Stops all components with HDFS, HBase,
                                        ZooKeeper and Ranger.
None


Update Target Repository
Updates the stack version in Ambari to the
                                        target version.
None


Add New YARN Components
In CDP Private Cloud Base, there are two new YARN
                                        components: YARN Registry DNS, and Timeline Reader. Both of
                                        these components are automatically added to the
                                        cluster.
None


Update Service Configs
Updates (i.e. transfers or replaces) any
                                        configurations that are necessary for the upgrade.
None


Restart Components
Restarts all core components such as ZooKeeper,
                                        Ranger, HDFS, YARN, MapReduce2 and various Clients (Tez,
                                        Pig, Sqoop).

In an SSO-enabled cluster: If the cookie is
                                            lost/session is expired:client should use local login to
                                            access the Ambari and proceed further.
For example:
                                            <ambari_host:ambari_port>/#/login/local



All Service Checks
All Service Checks are performed against the
                                        cluster.
Any service check that fails prompts you to
                                            Ignore and Continue,
                                            Downgrade or
                                            Retry. If you selected the
                                            Skip all Service Check failures
                                        option, you are only prompted when all Service Checks
                                        complete.


Restart Components
Restarts the remaining components such as
                                        Oozie, Hive, Spark2 and others.
None


Set Version on All Hosts
Sets the HDP version on all hosts to the target
                                        HDP version.
None


Finalize Upgrade Pre-Check
Checks if any hosts were not upgraded, either
                                        because the host was in Maintenance Mode, or one or more
                                        components on the host failed to upgrade (and were
                                        skipped).
Click the list that displays #
                                            hosts for details on the hosts (and their
                                        components) that are not upgraded. You can Pause
                                            Upgrade, delete the hosts and return to
                                        finalize.


Finalize Upgrade
The component upgrades are complete. You are
                                        presented the option to Finalize, which when selected,
                                        completes the upgrade process + saves the cluster
                                        state.

When prompted to remove HBase snapshots, look
                                            for snapshots matching
                                                $TABLE-ru-$TIMESTAMP
Prompted to Finalize or Finalized Later or
                                            Downgrade.





When the upgrade stages complete, you can choose to
                        Finalize the upgrade, or to Finalize
                        Later. Finalizing later gives you a chance to perform more
                    validation on the cluster.

noteIf you choose to finalize later, both versions are listed on the Stack and Versions tab with the starting version displaying as Current. It is not until you finalize that Ambari makes the target version the current version. Also, until you finalize, you will not be able to perform operational changes to the cluster (such as move components, change configurations, and so on).


Click Finalize to complete the express upgrade
                    process.


Parent topic: Perform the HDP upgrade