Register software repositoriesCloudera Docs
Register software repositories
Before you use Ambari to perform the stack upgrade, you must register the software repositories for the new target version with Ambari and then install the software on all hosts in the cluster.

Login to Ambari.

Browse to Cluster Admin > Stack and Versions.

Click the Versions tab. You see the version currently
                    running, marked as Current.

noteThe full version depends on the HDP version you are actually running. For
                        example, if you are currently running the HDP 2.6.5.x release, you would see
                        something like HDP-2.6.5.0-292 as the full version number.


Click Manage Versions.

Proceed to register a new version by clicking Register
                        Version.

Select the software version and method of delivery for your cluster.


Choose HDP Stack

Available HDP minor versions display on tabs. When you click a tab, Ambari displays available maintenance versions for that HDP stack in a drop-down list. When you click a specific maintenance version, a list of available services and their version is displayed in a table.



Choose the HDP Version

If your Ambari host has internet access, available maintenance versions display as options in a drop-down list.
Make sure to use the Version Definition File (VDF) option for HDP
                                7.1.x.x.
If you see the VDF option for another version, click Add Version… and
                                upload the VDF file for HDP 7.1.x.x.
If you have difficulties, contact Cloudera Support to obtain the VDF
                                for HDP 7.1.x.x.



Choose Repository Delivery Method



Using a public repository requires internet connectivity. To
                                        use the public software repositories, see the list of HDP
                                        intermediate bits repositories for each operating
                                        system.


HDP intermediate bits Repositories are available for HDPDC,
                                        HDPDC-GPL, and HDP-UTILS. To use the repositories, see HDP intermediate
                                                            bits Repositories for 7.1.x.0 version.


Using a local repository requires that you have already configured the software in a repository available in your network. If you are using a local repository, enter the Base URLs for your local repository.
To find all the download links in a centralised location, see
                                            Software
                                            Download Matrix. 




If you are on SLES12, edit the repository URLs:


For each URL, remove the basicAuth credentials between
                                        https:// and
                                        archive.cloudera.com
Add ?credentials=ambari.cat postfix at the
                                    end of each URL.
For example, the base URL must be this:
                                        https://archive.cloudera.com/p/HDPDC/sles12/7.x/updates/7.1.4.0?credentials=ambari.cat




Select the Skip Repository Base URL validation
                                (Advanced) checkbox. 



Click Save.

Click Dashboard.

noteFor SLES 12:
Create the hdp.cat file with your paywall credentials. The
                                file is available here:
                                    /etc/zypp/credentials.d/hdp.cat. This is
                                the default location. If there is a change in the location of the
                                    hdp.cat file, then you must provide the changed
                                location. You must update the username and password in the
                                    hdp.cat file: username=<username>password=<password>
Add ?credentials=hdp.cat as a postfix to the end of
                                BaseURL and gpgkey. For example,
                                    https://archive.cloudera.com/p/HDPDC/7.x/7.1.6.0/ambari.repo?credentials=hdp.cat
 For more information, see Zypp Configuration
                                options.




HDP Intermediate bits for 7.1.x.0 RepositoriesHDP repositories are available for RHEL/CentOS, Sles, and Ubuntu.Software download matrix for HDP 2.6.5 to CDP 7.1.xAll the download links related to HDP, Ambari, Cloudera Manager, CDP Private Cloud Base, and so on are available here. Parent topic: Upgrading HDP to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.x