OverviewCloudera Docs
Overview
You can roll back an upgrade from HDP 2.6.5.x to CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6, 7.1.7
        SP2, and 7.1.8. The rollback restores your HDP cluster to the state it was in before the
        upgrade, including Kerberos and TLS/SSL configurations. 
Before you start rolling back the CDP Private Cloud Base 7 to HDP 2, review the following
            information. 
Caveats

Any data created after the upgrade is lost. In a typical upgrade, you first upgrade
                Ambari from version 2.6.5 to version 7.1.6, and then you use the upgraded version of
                Ambari 7.1.6 to upgrade HDP 2 to CDP Private Cloud Base 7. (See Upgrading a Cluster) If you want to roll
                back this upgrade, follow these steps to roll back your cluster to its state prior
                to the upgrade. 
Follow all of the steps in the order presented in this topic. Cloudera recommends
                that you read through the backup and rollback steps before starting the backup
                process. You may want to create a detailed plan to help you anticipate potential
                problems. 
You can roll back to HDP 2 after upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base 7 only if the
                HDFS upgrade has not been finalized. The rollback restores your HDP cluster to the
                state it was in before the upgrade, including Kerberos and TLS/SSL configurations. 
These rollback steps depend on complete backups taken before upgrading Ambari and
                HDP. See Back Up Ambari and Backing up HDP cluster. For steps
                where you need to restore the contents of a directory, clear the contents of the
                directory before copying the backed-up files to the directory. If you fail to do
                this, artifacts from the original upgrade can cause problems if you attempt the
                upgrade again after the rollback.

Review Limitations
The rollback procedure has the following limitations. This rollback guide covers rolling
            back upgrade before finalizing the HDP7 upgrade in Ambari and does not cover the AM2CM
            Stage. 
HDFS – If you have finalized the HDFS upgrade, you cannot roll back your
                    cluster. 
Configuration changes, including the addition of new services or roles after the
                    upgrade are not retained after rolling back Ambari. Cloudera recommends that you
                    not make configuration changes or add new services and roles until you have
                    finalized the HDFS upgrade and no longer require the option to roll back your
                    upgrade. 
HBase – If your cluster is configured to use HBase replication, data written to
                    HBase after the upgrade might not be replicated to peers when you start your
                    rollback. This topic does not describe how to determine which, if any, peers
                    have the replicated data and how to roll back that data. For more information
                    about HBase replication, see HBase Replication. 
Kafka – Once the Kafka log format and protocol version configurations (the
                        inter.broker.protocol.version and
                        log.message.format.version properties) are set to the new
                    version (or left blank, which means to use the latest version), Kafka rollback
                    is not possible.

 Unsupported components
For more information on supported components, see unsupported components. 

Parent topic: Rollback HDP Services