Add the DAS serviceCloudera Docs
Add the DAS service
Adding the DAS service from the Ambari UI makes DAS available on your
        cluster.

On the Ambari UI, click Actions > Add Service. 
The Add Service Wizard is displayed.

On the Choose Services page of the Wizard, select
                        Data Analytics Studio.
Other required services are automatically selected.

When prompted to confirm the addition of dependent services, give a positive
                    confirmation to all.
This adds the other required services.

On the Customize Services page, expand
                        Advance_data_analytics_studio-database and fill in
                    the database details and other required fields that are highlighted.

note

Enter a password in the password field. Do not leave this field
                                empty.
Uncheck the Create Data Analytics Studio
                                    database checkbox, and specify the same database
                                hostname in the Data Analytics Studio database
                                    hostname field on which your database is
                                running.




In the user_authentication field, specify the
                    authentication method that you want to use. You can specify one of the
                    following:


NONE: Specify NONE if you do not want to enable
                            user authentication. In this case, all the queries will be executed as
                            the hive service user.
KNOX_SSO: Specify KNOX_SSO to enable single
                            sign-on experience to authenticate users as configured in the Knox SSO
                            topology.
KNOX_PROXY: Specify KNOX_PROXY to use DAS behind
                            a Knox proxy. The user is authenticated as configured in the Knox proxy
                            topology. It also enables SPNEGO authentication.
SPNEGO: Specify SPNEGO to authenticate users
                            using a token-based authentication.


You can configure the user authentication separately, after you have added the
                    DAS service as part of the post-installation tasks.

You can add additional configuration information in rest of the fields as
                    appropriate.

Complete the remaining installation wizard steps and exit the wizard.

Ensure that all components required for the DAS service start
                    successfully.

Make sure to restart all the affected services in Ambari.


Parent topic: Installing Data Analytics Studio on a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster using Ambari