Overview of the expedited Hive upgradeCloudera Docs
Overview of the expedited Hive upgrade
You perform tasks before and after the Hive migration to hasten the upgrade. The
  sequence of steps involved in expediting the Hive upgrade includes identifying problems in tables
  and databases before upgrading, modifying the HSMM process to prevent migration of your tables and
  databases, and completing the cluster upgrade.  After the upgrade to CDP, you migrate the tables
  and databases.

Prepare tables for migration, identifying potential migration problems using the Hive Upgrade
    Check tool.
Decide to expedite the upgrade by not migrating your databases and tables during the
    upgrade.
Modify the HSMM process to prevent migration of your tables and databases during the
    upgrade.
Start the upgrade wizard to upgrade your cluster. 

If you did not migrate all tables, do so after the upgrade to CDP as follows:

Prepare your databases and tables for migration using the Hive Upgrade Check tool.
Migrate tables and databases to CDP.You cannot use unmigrated tables in CDP.


Handle Missing Table or Partition LocationsYou need to identify missing table or partition locations, or both, to prevent         upgrade failure. If the table and partition locations do not exist in the file system, you         must either create a replacement partition directory (recommended) or drop the table and         partition. Managed Table Location MappingA managed table location must map to one managed table only. If multiple managed         tables point to the same location, upgrade problems occur. Check SERDE Definitions and AvailabilityEnsure correct Serde definitions and a reference to a SERDE exists to ensure a         successful upgrade.Make Tables SparkSQL CompatibleNon-Acid, managed tables in ORC or in a Hive Native (but non-ORC) format that are         owned by the POSIX user hive will not be SparkSQL-compatible after the         upgrade unless you perform manual conversions. Parent topic: Expediting the Hive upgrade