Enable Kerberos for authenticationCloudera Docs
Enable Kerberos for authentication
For Hue to work properly with a CDP cluster that uses Kerberos for authentication,
        the Kerberos Ticket Renewer role must be added to the Hue service. After you have added the
        Hue service to your cluster, renew the Kerberos ticket for Hue and enable Kerberos for
        authentication.

 Use the Cloudera Manager Admin Console to add the Kerberos Ticket Renewer role to
                each host with a Hue Server role instance. The Hue Kerberos Ticket Renewer renews
                only those tickets created for the Hue service principal:
                        hue/hostname@REALM-NAME. The Hue
                principal impersonates other users for applications within Hue such as the Job
                Browser, File Browser, and so on. Other services, such as HDFS and MapReduce, do not
                use the Hue Kerberos Ticket Renewer. Instead these other services handle ticket
                renewal as needed by using their own mechanisms.


On the Cloudera Manager home page, select the Hue
                    service.

On the Hue service page, click the Instances tab.

On the Instances page, click Add Role Instances on the
                    right side of the page. This launches the Add Role Instances wizard.

To add a Kerberos Ticket Renewer role instance to the same host that has the
                    Hue server on your CDP cluster, click Select hosts under
                        Kerberos Ticket Renewer:




To check which host has the Hue Server role instance, click View
                            By Host, which launches a table that lists all the hosts in
                        your CDP cluster and shows all the roles each host already has.


In the host selection dialog box, after selecting the host where you want to
                    add the Kerberos Ticket Renewer role instance, click OK,
                    and Cloudera Manager adds the role instance.

 After processing the request to add the role instance, Cloudera Manager
                    returns you to the Instances page and prompts you to restart the service. Click
                    the Restart the service (or the instance)... link so the
                    configuration change can take effect.

After the services have restarted, click Finish to
                    return to the Instances page.

Repeat these steps for each Hue Server role on your cluster.



Troubleshooting the Kerberos Ticket Renewer:
If the Hue Kerberos Ticket Renewer does not start, check the configuration of your
                Kerberos Key Distribution Center (KDC). Look at the ticket renewal property,
                    maxrenewlife, to ensure that the principals,
                        hue/<host_name> and
                    krbtgt, are renewable. If these principals are not renewable,
                run the following commands on the KDC to enable them:
kadmin.local: modprinc -maxrenewlife 90day krbtgt/<YOUR_REALM.COM>
kadmin.local: modprinc -maxrenewlife 90day +allow_renewable hue/<host_name>@<YOUR_REALM>


Parent topic: Adding Hue service with Cloudera Manager