Warnings and prerequisitesCloudera Docs
Warnings and prerequisites
Preparing HDP Search for
  a CDP Private Cloud Base
  upgrade is a complex task. 
warningThe procedure documented here is not applicable to transition infra-Solr
   deployments from HDP to CDP.
warningDue to changes in the underlying Apache Lucene file format between the HDP
   Search 2 or 3 and the Solr shipped with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher, it is not
   possible to directly upgrade your existing indexes. The following procedures update only your
   Solr configuration and metadata to be compatible with the new Solr version. After upgrading to
    Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher, you must
   reindex your collections.Make sure that the source data that was used to index your
    collections is still available before upgrading. Plan downtime for any applications or services
    that use your Search deployment.
warning
The solr-upgrade.sh script shipped with Cloudera Manager 7.3.1 or earlier
        downloads aliases.json from ZooKeeper during the pre-upgrade transition,
        but it fails to upload the file to the upgraded cluster. You need to recreate aliases
        manually on the upgraded cluster. For more information on aliases, see Collection aliasing.
If you run Cloudera Manager 7.4.2 or higher, you can disregard this warning.

warningAlthough the configuration
        transformation script addresses known incompatibilities, there might be incompatible
        configurations that are not detected by the script. Do not upgrade your production Cloudera
        Search services to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher until you have
        tested the migrated configuration with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher on a testing or development
        cluster.
Prerequisites

Obtain the solr-download-metadata.sh script by creating a support ticket at
     the support
      site.
Provision an interim Cloudera Runtime 7 cluster with a Solr service before you start the
     upgrade process. You need it to perform some of the upgrade transformation steps and you can
     also use it for upgrade testing.
Stop making changes to your HDP Search environment. Make sure that no configuration changes
     are made to HDP Search for the duration of the transition and upgrade. This includes adding or
     removing Solr Server hosts, moving Solr Server roles between hosts, changing hostnames, and so
     on.
Plan for an outage for any applications or services that use your Search deployment until
     you have completed reindexing after the upgrade.
If you use Kerberos, create a jaas.conf file for the Search service
     superuser (solr by default).
Do not create, delete, or modify any collections for the duration of the transition and
     upgrade.
Make a backup of your HDP Search deployment.



Parent topic: Preparing HDP Search for upgrade