Preparing HDP Search for upgradeCloudera Docs
Preparing HDP Search for upgrade
Cloudera provides the solr-upgrade.sh script to transition HDP Search
    2 or 3 configurations to make them compatible with Solr 8 that is shipped with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher. To run this
    script, you need to download configuration metadata from your HDP Search instance and copy it to
    an interim CDP cluster with Solr service. You can then use that same cluster to validate and
    test the migrated configuration metadata. 
note
Do not perform the upgrade tasks on a production cluster, during an actual HDP to CDP
        upgrade, because the process is time consuming and may require fixing incompatibilities
        manually.

The  migration script cannot upgrade the Lucene index files. After
      upgrading, you must reindex your collections. For more information, see Reindexing in Solr in the Apache Solr wiki.
HDP Search to Cloudera Search transition process

Deploy an interim CDP cluster with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher. Start
          a Solr service.
Download the HDP Search configuration and copy it to the interim CDP cluster.
Transition the HDP Search configuration using the interim cluster.
Validate the transitioned configuration, using the interim cluster.
Test the transitioned configuration, using the interim cluster.
Upgrade HDP to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.x.
Perform Search post-HDP-upgrade tasks.



Warnings and prerequisitesPreparing HDP Search for   a CDP Private Cloud Base   upgrade is a complex task. Download Solr configuration from HDP Search ZooKeeperThe solr-download-metadata.sh script downloads metadata from HDP         Search ZooKeeper. You can then copy this information into a CDP cluster and use it as input         for the CDP Private Cloud Base upgrade process.Transition Solr configurationDepending on the Cloudera Manager version, select the transition process that is   applicable to your case.Validate transitioned Solr configurationThe solr-upgrade.sh script includes a             validate-metadata command that you can run against the migrated Solr         configuration and metadata to make sure that they can be used to reinitialize the Solr         service after the CDH cluster         upgrade.         Test transitioned Solr configuration on a Cloudera Runtime clusterCopy the upgraded Solr configuration to a test or development CDP cluster to test it         for incompatibilities not detected by the upgrade script before you initiate the upgrade on         your production environment.Parent topic: Preparing the services for upgrade