How much time should I plan for to complete my upgrade?Cloudera Docs
How much time should I plan for to complete my upgrade?
An in-place upgrade can take a variable amount of time to complete.
    Learn about how to plan for and shorten the amount of time required for your
    upgrade. 
The amount of time required for an in-place upgrade depends on many
      factors, including:
The number of hosts in your clusters. 
The  mix of services you have deployed in your clusters. 
The amount of data stored in your clusters. 

Generally, an upgrade can be completed in 24-48 hours. Upgrades from HDP
      to CDP may take somewhat longer due to the Ambari to Cloudera Manager
      conversion process (AM2CM). 
The following table provides some additional information to help you plan
      for your upgrade.
Table 1. Upgrade Time Planning 

Component/Process
Notes



Cloudera Runtime Parcel
The Cloudera Runtime parcel must be distributed to all hosts
              before upgrading the hosts. Downloading the parcel directly from
                archive.cloudera.com over the internet may add
              additional time. You can download the parcels and serve them from
              a local web server to decrease this time. In addition, after
                downloading the parcels to a local repository, you can
                distribute them in advance of launching the upgrade wizard to
                save additional time. 


Cloudera Manager
You must upgrade Cloudera Manager before upgrading your
              clusters. Cloudera Manager can continue to mange older versions of
              Cloudera Runtime and CDH until the upgrade. 


Cluster cold start  
The cluster will need to be restarted at least once during an
              in-place upgrade. The amount of time required for a restart
              depends on how many files and blocks are stored in the cluster and
              the number of hosts in the cluster. 


Hive
The Hive strict managed migration process can take a
              significant amount of time. See for more information about
              mitigating that impact. See 
              Understanding
                the Hive upgrade (CDH)



HBase checks
While Running HBase checks does not take significant time,
              remediating any issues can take significant time. To save time
              during the upgrade, you can plan to do this before running the
              Upgrade Wizard.


Solr export/backup
This process depends on how much data has to be imported
              after the upgrade.



Parent topic: HDP to CDP Upgrade Overview