Preparing Hive for upgradeCloudera Docs
Preparing Hive for upgrade
Hive needs house cleaning before an upgrade. Some house cleaning tasks are mandatory to
    prevent upgrade failure. A smooth upgrade experience justifies spending the time and effort to
    clean up problems. Some problems prevent conversion of old Hive tables to Hive 3 ACID tables. 
To prepare Hive for upgrade, you can perform the tasks below.
Prerequisites

Your Hive tables reside in HDP 2.6.5.x. Upgrades from HDP 3.x are not supported in this
          release of CDP Private Cloud Base. 
JDK is installed on the node running Hive Metastore.
Hive Metastore is running and connected to the node where you will run the Hive pre-upgrade
     tool.
If Hive metastore contains ACID tables, you have enabled ACID operations using Ambari Web or
     set the following Hive configuration properties to enable ACID. Failure to set these properties
     before upgrading Hive will result in corrupt or unreadable ACID tables.
hive.txn.manager=org.apache.hadoop.hive.ql.lockmgr.DbTxnManager
hive.support.concurrency=true

Optionally, you shut down HiveServer2. Shutting down HiveServer2 is recommended, but not
     required, to prevent operations on ACID tables while the tool executes.

You ensured the cluster has sufficient capacity to execute any compaction jobs that the
      upgrade tool might submit by setting hive.compactor.worker.threads to accommodate your
      data.

You obtained permissions below to perform the steps to prepare Hive for upgrade.
Hive service user permissions, or all permissions to access Hive that Ranger provides
If you use Kerberos, a valid Kerberos ticket for starting Hive as the Hive service
        userThe Hive service user is usually the default hive user. If you don’t
        know who the Hive service user is, go to the Ambari Web UI, and click Cluster Admin >
        Service Accounts, and then look for Hive User.
Capability to login as the HDFS superuser.
If you use Kerberos, you have become the HDFS superuser with a valid ticket.

If you use Oracle as the backend database for Hive 1.x - Hive 3.x and the ojdbc7 JAR,
          replace this JAR with ojdbc6 JAR as described in the Cloudera Community "Unable to start Hive Metastore during HDP
            upgrade" article.



Take a Mandatory Snapshot of Hive TablesTaking a snapshot of Hive tables is mandatory before upgrading. You also need to keep         track of how many tables you have before upgrading for comparison after upgrading. Make Tables SparkSQL CompatibleNon-Acid, managed tables in ORC or in a Hive Native (but non-ORC) format that are         owned by the POSIX user hive will not be SparkSQL-compatible after the         upgrade unless you perform manual conversions. Download the Pre-Upgrade Tool JAR for CompactionYou must download the software that you run later to detect tables for compaction and         to perform that compaction. Get a Kerberos TicketYou must perform the recommended steps if you use Kerberos; otherwise, you can skip         these steps. Run Compaction on Hive TablesYou must use the Hive pre-upgrade tool JAR you downloaded to run compaction on Hive         tables. The pre-upgrade tool looks for files in an ACID table that contains update or delete         events, and generates scripts to compact these tables. You can run the pre-upgrade tool         command on the command line before or after upgrading Ambari. You do not actually use Ambari         to run this command.Save Hive Metastore by DumpingYou must dump the Hive metastore metadata immediately before upgrading. Dumping the         metastore data to a file is critical to prevent data loss. Capture Information about Multiple HiveServersIf you have multiple HiveServer (HS2) pods that either fence business units from each         other or offer doas impersonation types to aid a transition, you must configure         Cloudera Manager accordingly after the upgrade. You need to note the configuration         information from Ambari to use for this configuration task after the upgrade. Hive Pre-Upgrade Tool Command HelpThe pre-upgrade tool command supports a few options that you can consider using while     running it. Take a look at the output of the help command to see all the options.Parent topic: Preparing the services for upgrade