Streams Replication Manager Service REST APICloudera Docs
Streams Replication Manager Service REST API
The Streams Replication Manager  Service REST API can be used to monitor your
    replication workloads. Learn about the endpoints, endpoint versions, and the data that the
    endpoints expose.
The processed, aggregated, and in part derived metrics produced by the Streams Replication
      Manager (SRM) Service are available for consumption through the various endpoints of the SRM
      Service REST API. Exposed metrics are aggregated over a predefined set of samples and a
      sliding time window. In addition to aggregated values, the endpoints also return the
      statistical minimum, maximum, average, and sum of the corresponding sample.
Accessing the API and its endpoints
If you have access to a running instance of SRM, you can find a comprehensive list of the
        endpoints, their descriptions, as well as example responses for all endpoints on the SRM
        Service REST API’s Swagger UI. 
To access the Swagger UI, select the Streams Replication Manager service in Cloudera
        Manager and go to Web UI  >  SRM Service Swagger
            UI [***CLUSTER NAME***]. Alternatively, you
        can also view the Streams Replication Manager REST API Reference for a
        comprehensive list of the endpoints.
tip If you are accessing the Swagger UI on a running cluster, you can make calls
        to each endpoint directly on the UI using the Try it out
        option.

Endpoint versions
REST API endpoints are grouped based on their version. There exists V2 and V1 (legacy)
        endpoints. Both V1 and V2 endpoints are similar in content and role. Additionally, there is
        considerable overlap in functionality. However, V1 is provided only for backward
        compatibility. As a result, Cloudera recommends that you always use V2 endpoints when
        monitoring SRM. V2 is more sophisticated, offers more endpoints, and allows the target
        clusters to be specified by the user. The same is not true for V1 endpoints where the target
        cluster is fixed. It is always the target cluster of the SRM Service instance that serves
        the REST call. 

Internal and non-internal endpoints
In addition to version, the endpoints are also grouped based on whether they are internal
        or not. Cloudera recommends that you always use non-internal endpoints for monitoring.
        Internal endpoints are reserved for internal use by SRM. For example, if the Remote Querying
        feature is set up in your deployment, the SRM Service instances in the deployment use the
        internal endpoints to query each other's metrics. 

SMM integration
The endpoints made available on the API can also be used by services that integrate with
        SRM. Streams Messaging Manager (SMM), for example, queries the replication metrics using the
        endpoints and makes the data it collected available for consumption on the
          Replications page of the SMM UI. In other words, the replication
        insights that you can view in SMM are based on the metrics that SRM produces. For more
        information on how SMM integrates with SRM as well as the Replications
        page, see Monitoring Kafka Cluster Replications using Streams Messaging
          Manager.


Related informationStreams Replication Manager Service REST API ReferenceMonitoring Kafka Cluster Replications using Streams Messaging
              ManagerStreams Replication Manager monitoring and metricsStreams Replication Manager Service architectureRemote Querying