Choosing the number of partitions for a topicCloudera Docs
Choosing the number of partitions for a topic
Learn how to determine the number of partitions each of your Kafka topics
    requires.
Choosing the proper number of partitions for a topic is the key to
      achieving a high degree of parallelism with respect to writes to and reads and to distribute
      load. Evenly distributed load over partitions is a key factor to have good throughput (avoid
      hot spots). Making a good decision requires estimation based on the desired throughput of
      producers and consumers per partition.



For example, if you want to be able to read 1 GB/sec, but your
      consumer is only able process 50 MB/sec, then you need at least 20 partitions and 20 consumers
      in the consumer group. Similarly, if you want to achieve the same for producers, and 1
      producer can only write at 100 MB/sec, you need 10 partitions. In this case, if you have 20
      partitions, you can maintain 1 GB/sec for producing and consuming messages. You should adjust
      the exact number of partitions to number of consumers or producers, so that each consumer and
      producer achieve their target throughput. 
So a simple formula could be: 
#Partitions = max(NP, NC)
where:

NP is the number of required producers determined by
        calculating: TT/TP
NC is the number of required consumers determined by
        calculating: TT/TC
TT is the total expected throughput for our system
TP is the max throughput of a single producer to a single
        partition
TC is the max throughput of a single consumer from a single
        partition

This calculation gives you a rough indication of the number of
      partitions. It's a good place to start. Keep in mind the following considerations for
      improving the number of partitions after you have your system in place:

The number of partitions can be specified at topic creation time or later.
Increasing the number of partitions also affects the number of open file descriptors. So
        make sure you set file descriptor limit properly. 
Reassigning partitions can be very expensive, and therefore it's better to over- than
        under-provision. 
Changing the number of partitions that are based on keys is challenging and involves
        manual copying. 
Reducing the number of partitions is not currently supported. Instead, create a new a
        topic with a lower number of partitions and copy over existing data. 
Metadata about partitions are stored in ZooKeeper in the form of znodes.
        Having a large number of partitions has effects on ZooKeeper and on client resources: 
Unneeded partitions put extra pressure on ZooKeeper (more network requests), and might
            introduce delay in controller and/or partition leader election if a broker goes
            down.
Producer and consumer clients need more memory, because they need to keep track of
            more partitions and also buffer data for all partitions. 

As guideline for optimal performance, you should not have more than 4000 partitions per
        broker and not more than 200,000 partitions in a cluster. 

Make sure consumers don’t lag behind producers by monitoring
      consumer lag. To check consumers' position in a consumer group (that is, how far behind the
      end of the log they are), use the following command:
kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server BROKER_ADDRESS --describe --group CONSUMER_GROUP --new-consumer

Related informationManaging Apache kafkaParent topic: Cluster sizing