Technical service bulletinsCloudera Docs
Technical service bulletins 
Learn about the technical service bulletins (TSBs) with the Cloudera Data Engineering
    (CDE) service on public clouds, the impact or changes to the functionality, and the
    workaround.

Technical Service Bulletin (2022-588) 
Title: Kubeconfig and new version of aws-iam-authenticatorRegenerate Kubeconfig and
            in conjunction use a newer version of aws-iam-authenticator on AWS. Kubeconfig in
            Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) Public Cloud Data Services needs to be regenerated because
            the Kubeconfig generated before June 15, 2022 uses an old APIVersion
              (client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1) which is no longer supported. This
            causes compatibility issues with aws-iam-authenticator starting from v0.5.7. To be able to use the new
            aws-iam-authenticator, the Kubeconfig needs to be regenerated.Severity
High
Components affected
Cloudera Machine Learning (CML) Data Service
Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) Data Service
Cloudera Data Flow (CDF) Data Service
Products affected
CDP Public Cloud
Releases affected
All existing and upcoming CDP Public Cloud releases using the affected components,
              listed above.
Users affected
Users of CML, CDE, and CDF using Kubeconfig generated before June 15, 2022 and a
              version of aws-iam-authenticator prior to v0.5.7.
Impact
Customers using a Kubeconfig generated before June 15, 2022 and an
              aws-iam-authenticator version prior to v0.5.7 may see Kubernetes clients not
              able to access the cluster successfully.
Action requiredFrom June 15, 2022 onwards, existing customers on
            AWS using a previously generated Kubeconfig will have to:
Regenerate and use the new Kubeconfig, and 
Use a new version of aws-iam-authenticator starting with v0.5.7.
The newly generated Kubeconfig changes the APIVerson of the user’s
            section as:Old:ApiVersion:
            "client.authentication.k8s.io/v1alpha1"New:ApiVersion:
              "client.authentication.k8s.io/v1beta1"For the latest update on
              this issue see the corresponding Knowledge Base article: TSB 2022-588: Kubeconfig and new version of
                  aws-iam-authenticator
Technical Service Bulletin (2022-587) 
Issue: CDE 1.14, 1.15, and 1.16 using Kubernetes 1.21 will fail service account token
          renewal after 90 daysCloudera Data Engineering (CDE) on Amazon Web Services
            (AWS) running version CDE 1.14 and above using Kubernetes 1.21 will observe failed jobs
            after 90 days of service uptime [1]. [1] “For Amazon Elastic
              Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters, the extended expiry period is 90 days. Your Amazon
              EKS cluster's Kubernetes API server rejects requests with tokens older than 90
              days.”Symptoms

CDE Jobs (Spark or Airflow) fail with "Service Account May Have Been
                  Revoked. Unauthorized"

Components affected

CDE 1.14, 1.15, 1.16 (specifically Calico and Livy)

Products affected

Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) in Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) Public
                Cloud on AWS

Releases affected 

CDE Public Cloud releases 1.14, 1.15, 1.16

Users affected 

Users that have CDE enabled for at least 90 days


Users on Amazon Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes (EKS) with
                Kubernetes 1.21

Impact

All CDE jobs will fail (new and existing ones including scheduled).


Diagnostic bundles will also fail to download.


Action required

Workaround: Restart specific components to force regenerate the
                token. There are two options to do this:

Option 1) Using kubectl:

Setup kubectl for CDE.
https://community.cloudera.com/t5/Community-Articles/Support-Video-Enabling-kubectl-for-CDE/ta-p/314200


Delete "calico-node" pods.

kubectl delete pods --selector k8s-app=calico-node --namespace
              kube-system



Delete Livy pods for all Virtual Clusters (VC).

kubectl delete pods --selector app.kubernetes.io/name=livy
            --all-namespaces


If for some reason only one Livy pod needs to be fixed:

Find VC ID through the UI under "Cluster Details”.


Delete Livy pod: 

export VC_ID=<VC ID>
kubectl delete pods --selector app.kubernetes.io/name=livy --namespace
              ${​VC_ID}


Option 2) Using Kubernetes dashboard

On the "Service Details" page copy the "RESOURCE SCHEDULER"
                link.


Replace "yunikorn" part with the
                  "dashboard" and open the resulting link in the browser.


In the top left corner find the namespaces dropdown and choose "All
                  namespaces".


Search for "calico-node".


For each pod in the "Pods" table click on the "Delete"
                option from the "hamburger" menu.


Search for "livy".


For each pod in the "Pods" table click on the "Delete"
                option from the "hamburger" menu.


If for some reason only one Livy pod needs to be fixed:



Find VC ID through the UI under "Cluster Details" and only
                  delete the pod with the name starting with VC ID.



Addressed in release

Fixed in CDE 1.17 

For the latest update on this issue see the corresponding Knowledge Base
              article: TSB 2022-587: CDE 1.14 and above using Kubernetes
                  1.21 will fail service account token renewal after 90 days


Parent topic: Known issues and limitations in Cloudera Data Engineering Public Cloud