November 23, 2022Cloudera Docs
November 23, 2022
This release (1.18) of the Cloudera Data Engineering Service on CDP Public Cloud
  introduces new features and improvements that are described in this topic.
Updated CDE user interface
The user interface for CDE 1.17 and above has been updated with easy access to
    commonly used pages, a new Home page, and a Virtual Cluster drop-down menu that allows you to
    view relevant content related to each Virtual Cluster that you select. Only users who have a CDE
    Service on 1.18 and create new Virtual Clusters on 1.18 will see the changes. Users on older
    versions will continue have access to the old UI. The following user interface changes were
    made: 
Left-hand menu displays the following:
Home- New landing page that displays Virtual Clusters and
       convenient quick-access links.
Jobs - Displays jobs for the Virtual Cluster that you select from
       the drop-down menu in the upper left-hand corner.
Job Runs - Displays the run history of all jobs within a selected
       Virtual Cluster.
Resources - Displays resources created within a selected Virtual
       Cluster.
Administration - Displays services and Virtual Clusters that can
       be customized (previously known as the Overview page. noteIf you’re using a browser in incognito mode, you’ll need to allow all
        cookies in your browser settings so that you can view the following CDE pages: Pipelines,
        Spark, and Airflow.


Airflow performance
Airflow scaling improvements include support for 1500 DAGs on AWS and about 300 to 500 DAGs
    when deploying on Azure. For more information, see Apache Airflow scaling and tuning considerations.

Support for the eu-1 (Germany) and ap-1 (Australia) regional Control Plane
The eu-1 (Germany) and ap-1 (Australia) regional Control Plane now supports CDE. For
    the list of all supported services for all supported Control Plane regions, see CDP Control Plane regions.

Java Virtual Machine Debugger (Tech preview)
Attaching a remote debugger (Java virtual machine (JVM) debugger) to a CDE Spark job
    is now supported as a technical preview feature. For more information, see Using Java virtual machine (JVM) debugger with Apache Spark jobs in Cloudera Data Engineering (Preview) .

Hive Warehouse Connector tables
Hive Warehouse Connector (HWC) tables are now supported in Spark 3 of CDE.

Backup & Restore in object storage
Remote backup storage (object store) is now supported. Previously, only backup to and restore
    from local storage was supported. This is supported through the CLI and API only. For more
    information, see Backing up Cloudera Data Engineering jobs and Restoring Cloudera Data Engineering jobs from backup.

Limitations for raw Scala code in CDE
Limitations have been added to the raw Scala code. For limitation details, see  Running raw Scala code in Cloudera Data Engineering.

Support for Iceberg V2
Iceberg table format version 2 (v2) is generally available (GA) in CDE. The latest
    specifications include the following key updates:
UPDATE and DELETE operations follow the Iceberg format v2 row-level position delete
      specification and enforces snapshot isolation.
DELETES, UPDATES, and MERGE operations use the merge-on-read function by default.
      Merge-on-read is more efficiant than the copy-on-write function because it does not rewrite
      file data.

For more information, see Prerequisites


Parent topic: What's new in Cloudera Data Engineering Public Cloud?