April 27, 2022Cloudera Docs
April 27, 2022
This release (1.15) of the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service on CDP Public
        Cloud introduces the new features and improvements that are described in this
        topic.
[Technical Preview] Support for Iceberg 0.13

You can use Cloudera Data Engineering virtual clusters running Spark 3 to
                    interact with the latest version (0.13) of Apache Iceberg tables.
CDE now supports row level updates via copy-on-write MERGE / UPDATES/ DELETES
                    operations. Copy-on-write is helpful in bulk updates in read heavy
                    use-cases.
For more information, see  Using Apache Iceberg in Cloudera Data Engineering .


[Technical Preview] In-place upgrades 

CDE supports upgrades from two CDE versions prior for both AWS and
                    Azure. For example, if the current CDE version is 1.18, then upgrades are
                    supported from CDE 1.16. The upgrades can be triggered by an Admin from CDE
                    UI.
Users will need to manually pause/backup/restore each Virtual Cluster
                    to account for upgrade failures.
Upgrades of CDE core components include: EKS, AKS Services, and Application
                    Services
Upgrades of dependencies include: Helm, K8s versions, YuniKorn
For more information, see  CDE In-place Upgrades
                    (Preview)


Job email alerts
SLA miss and job failure conditions can be configured for email
                notifications.

Job runtime notices
Active jobs will now provide notification to the user when certain conditions are met
                and jobs are not behaving as expected making it easier to understand why jobs might
                be stuck or not making progress. 
For more information, see Running jobs in Cloudera Data
                    Engineering

Spark 3.2
CDE now supports Apache Spark 3.2.

Data Lake upgrades
CDE has now been certified when Data Lake is resized..


Parent topic: What's new in Cloudera Data Engineering Public Cloud?