July 20, 2022Cloudera Docs
July 20, 2022
 This release (1.16) of the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service on CDP Public
        Cloud introduces the new features and improvements that are described in this
        topic.
Airflow pipeline UI editor (GA)

Airflow Pipeline UI editor is now GA as a default feature in new Virtual
                    Clusters with support for all major browsers (Firefox, Chrome, and Safari).


Upgrade to Airflow 2.2.5
CDE 1.16 now runs with Airflow 2.2.5.

Several fixes to improve performance and stability have been bundled
                    with the upgrade. 
New Virtual Clusters will automatically use the new Airflow
                    version.
This version deprecated the timezone package usage. The DAGs need to
                    be updated to use the pendulum package instead. If your airflow DAGs need to be
                    timezone aware then they should rely on the pendulum timezone library for start
                    and end dates as described here. Otherwise, the backup and
                    restore process will not be able to restore these DAGs. For more information,
                    see CDE known issues.


Spark 3 support for raw scala code
Spark 3 support for raw scala code.
Previously this feature was limited to Spark 2, it is now extended to Spark
                3 based Virtual Clusters. This allows you to directly run raw scala via API &
                CLI in batch-mode without having to compile, similar to what spark-shell
                supports.

Support for Azure private storage
CDE now supports Azure private storage. Both private ABFS and ADLS gen2 containers
                are now supported.

Editing VC configurations post creation
You can now modify the virtual settings such as cluster quotas (CPU/memory)
                dynamically.

Loading example jobs and sample data using new VCs
CDE provides an option to add in-product examples of data & jobs in new
                virtual clusters to facilitate smoother onboarding and learning for new
                customers.

Kubernetes update
CDE now supports K8s 1.22.


The CSP EOS for K8s 1.21 is as follows:
For Azure: July 2022
For AWS: February 2023

Check for removals as per this upgrade:Kubernetes API and Feature Removals In
                                1.22 and Removed APIs by
                    release


Support for creation of a Default Virtual Cluster
CDE now provides support for default virtual clusters. This will help you
                get a jump start to create your jobs easily, without having to wait to create a CDE
                virtual cluster, making the onboarding smoother. You have the option to turn this
                selection off if you do not wish to use a default virtual cluster.
For more information, see Enabling Cloudera Data Engineering
                    service.

[Technical Preview] In-place upgrades
CDE supports upgrades from two CDE versions prior for both AWS and Azure. For
                example, if the current CDE version is 1.18, then upgrades are supported from CDE
                1.16. The upgrades can be triggered by an Admin from CDE UI.

Users will need to manually pause/backup/restore each Virtual Cluster to account
                    for upgrade failures.
Upgrades of CDE core components include: EKS, AKS Services, and Application
                    Services
Upgrades of dependencies include: Helm, K8s versions, YuniKorn



Parent topic: What's new in Cloudera Data Engineering Public Cloud?