August 2, 2021Cloudera Docs
August 2, 2021
This release (1.9) of the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service
    on CDP Public Cloud introduces the new features and improvements that are
    described in this topic.
Kubernetes version updated to 1.19
The Kubernetes version has been updated to 1.19.

Dynamic allocation enabled by default
Dynamic allocation is now enabled by default. You can configure the
        initial number of executors as well as a range of executors per job.
Dynamic allocation scales job executors up and down as needed for
        running jobs. This can provide large performance benefits by allocating
        as many resources as needed by the running job, and by returning
        resources when they are not needed so that concurrent jobs can
        potentially run faster.
Resources are limited by the job configuration (executor range) as well
        as the virtual cluster auto-scaling parameters. By default, the executor
        range is set to match the range of CPU cores configured for the virtual
        cluster. This improves resource utilization and efficiency by allowing
        jobs to scale up to the maximum virtual cluster resources available,
        without manually tuning and optimizing the number of executors per
        job.
This is a change from the default behavior (static allocation) in older
        releases. If you restore job configuration from an older release, the
        restored jobs will use dynamic allocation.

Support for Amazon AWS S3 URLs in jobs
A previous issue with S3 URLs in job configurations has been fixed. You
        can now specify S3 URLs for your application code and Jar files. For
        jobs using this functionality, you must also add the following Apache
        Spark configuration option:
spark.hadoop.fs.s3a.delegation.token.binding=org.apache.knox.gateway.cloud.idbroker.s3a.IDBDelegationTokenBinding

On-demand Python virtual environments
You can now submit a job with a Python
          requirements.txt file, as follows:
cde spark submit my_job.py --python-requirements /path/to/requirements.txt
This builds the Python virtual environment resource for the user,
        attaches it to the job, and sets it to be cleaned up when the job run
        terminates.


Parent topic: Older releases