August 30, 2021Cloudera Docs
August 30, 2021
This release (1.11) of the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service on CDP Public Cloud
  introduces the new features and improvements that are described in this topic.
GA support for virtual clusters powered by Apache Spark 3

Support for virtual clusters powered by Apache Spark 3 is no longer a Technical
      Preview feature, and is now generally available (GA).
The following functionalities are not currently supported:
Deep analysis (visual profiler)
HWC - that is, Hive managed ACID tables (Direct Reader & JDBC mode)
Phoenix Connector
SparkR
Kudu



[Technical Preview] Fully private AKS cluster set up

Fully private AKS clusters are now supported, for customers who want to
          restrict resources from being exposed via public IP addresses. This allows securing the
          Kubernetes cluster even more, an AKS API server can be created with a private IP address
          which is only accessible to the resources which are running inside of the Azure virtual
          network (VNet).
A private AKS is deployed within customers' network and leverages CCMv2/Proxy
          for accessing the K8s APIs.
Cloudera recommends using one single resource group  per environment. You can accomplish
          this by selecting a (pre-created) resource group during CDP environment creation.


Gang scheduling enabled by default

YuniKorn Gang scheduling policy is now enabled by default within CDE.
For more information on Gang scheduling, see the Spark on Kubernetes – Gang Scheduling with
            YuniKorn Cloudera Blog post.


[Technical Preview] User-specified IAM roles

CDE job pods can now run with a user-specified IAM role with the role
          credentials automatically supplied as instance credentials. This allows transparent usage
          of cloud SDKs or any code making use of the instance credentials provider. User roles are
          secured and allocated through the CDP environment IDBroker mappings.
This feature is available as a Technical Preview. Contact your Cloudera
          account representative to enable access to this feature.


Spark Analysis disabled by default


Metric collection from Spark jobs is now disabled by default to provide the
            most optimal performance.


During development and testing, you can turn on additional Spark
            profiling:

On the CDE UI: After creating the job, go to its
                  Configuration tab and toggle the Spark
                  Analysis option.For more information, see Managing jobs in Cloudera Data
              Engineering.
From CLI/API: Set the following configuration parameter during job creation:
                  dex.safariEnabled=trueFor more information, see Managing Cloudera Data Engineering jobs using the CLI and Creating a Cloudera Data Engineering job using the API respectively.





Parent topic: Older releases