Introduction to the app-based provisioning credential on AzureCloudera Docs
Introduction to the app-based provisioning
      credential on Azure
Creating a credential is a prerequisite for
      creating an environment. On Azure, you can create a credential using the app-based credential. 
When working with an Azure environment, you can use the app-based credential to
         authenticate your Azure account and obtain authorization to create resources on your
         behalf. The app-based credential allows you to manually configure the service
         principal created within the Azure Active Directory. 
The following table provides a list of app-based cloud credential options:



App-based



Overview of steps
Manually create an application, assign a role to it, and then provide the
                     application information as part of credential creation.


Required role
Refer to Azure permissions. 


Requirements
You must be able to manage your organization's Azure Active Directory. If
                     you do not have the required permissions, then you should ask your Azure
                     administrator to register an application on Azure and then assign the
                        Contributor role (or its equivalent) to it. 


More information
The app-based method allows you to create a credential without logging in
                     to the Azure account, as long as you have been given all the information. This
                     means that if you can't complete app registration and role assignment steps by
                     yourself, you can ask your Azure administrator to complete these steps and then
                     provide you with the required information that can be provided during
                     credential creation. In addition to providing your Subscription ID
                        and Tenant ID, you must provide information for your previously
                        created Azure AD application (its ID and key which allows access to
                        it). CDP stores these credentials.


For more information about applications and service principal objects, refer to Azure
         docs.

Related informationApplication and service principal objects in Azure Active
                  Directory (Azure)