Decimal typeCloudera Docs
Decimal type
The decimal type is a numeric data
    type with fixed scale and precision suitable for financial and other arithmetic calculations
    where the imprecise representation and rounding behavior of float and double make those types impractical. The decimal type is also useful for integers larger than int64 and cases with fractional
    values in a primary key.

          The decimal type is a parameterized type that takes precision and
          scale type attributes.
        

Precision represents the total number of digits that can be represented by the
          column, regardless of the location of the decimal point. This value must be between 1
          and 38 and has no default. For example, a precision of 4 is required to represent
          integer values up to 9999, or to represent values up to 99.99 with two fractional
          digits. You can also represent corresponding negative values, without any change in
          the precision. For example, the range -9999 to 9999 still only requires a precision of
          4.
        

Scale represents the number of fractional digits. This value must be between 0
          and the precision. A scale of 0 produces integral values, with no fractional part. If
          precision and scale are equal, all of the digits come after the decimal point. For
          example, a decimal with precision and scale equal to 3 can represent values between
          -0.999 and 0.999.
        

Performance considerations:


          Kudu stores each value in as few bytes as possible depending on the precision
          specified for the decimal column. For that reason it is not advised to just use the
          highest precision possible for convenience. Doing so could negatively impact
          performance, memory and storage.
        

          Before encoding and compression:
        



              Decimal values with precision of 9 or less are stored in 4 bytes.
            



              Decimal values with precision of 10 through 18 are stored in 8 bytes.
            



              Decimal values with precision greater than 18 are stored in 16 bytes.
            


note
          The precision and scale of decimal columns cannot be changed by altering the table.
        

Parent topic: Column design