QuotasCloudera Docs
Quotas
 Learn about Quotas and how to set them.
For a quick video introduction to quotas, see Quotas.
Kafka can enforce quotas on produce and fetch requests. Producers and consumers can use very
      high volumes of data. This can monopolize broker resources, cause network saturation, and
      generally deny service to other clients and the brokers themselves. Quotas protect
      against these issues and are important for large, multi-tenant clusters where a small set of
      clients using high volumes of data can degrade the user experience. 
Quotas are byte-rate thresholds, defined per client ID. A client ID logically identifies an
      application making a request. A single client ID can span multiple producer and consumer
      instances. The quota is applied for all instances as a single entity. For example, if a client
      ID has a produce quota of 10 MB/s, that quota is shared across all instances with that same
      ID.
When running Kafka as a service, quotas can enforce API limits. By default, each unique
      client ID receives a fixed quota in bytes per second, as configured by the cluster
        (quota.producer.default, quota.consumer.default). This
      quota is defined on a per-broker basis. Each client can publish or fetch a maximum of
        X bytes per second per broker before it gets throttled.
The broker does not return an error when a client exceeds its quota, but instead attempts to
      slow the client down. The broker computes the amount of delay needed to bring a client under
      its quota and delays the response for that amount of time. This approach keeps the quota
      violation transparent to clients (outside of client-side metrics). This also prevents clients
      from having to implement special backoff and retry behavior.
 You can override the default quota for client IDs that need a higher or lower quota. The
      mechanism is similar to per-topic log configuration overrides. Write your client ID overrides
      to ZooKeeper under /config/clients. All brokers read the overrides, which
      are effective immediately. You can change quotas without having to do a rolling restart of the
      entire cluster.
By default, each client ID receives an unlimited quota. The following configuration sets the
      default quota per producer and consumer client ID to 10 MB/s.
quota.producer.default=10485760
quota.consumer.default=10485760
To set quotas using Cloudera Manager, open the Kafka Configuration
      page and search for Quota. Use the fields provided to set the Default
        Consumer Quota or Default Producer Quota.

Related informationChanging the Configuration of a Service or Role Instance