



























































2022 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud Database Management Systems (DBMS)| Cloudera
























































Analyst Report
2022 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud Database Management Systems













 























Gartner ® recognizes Cloudera as a Leader in the 2022 Cloud DBMS Magic Quadrant™






Read the 2022 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud Database Management Systems (DBMS) to learn about the database and analytics trends in 2022 and see why Cloudera is recognized as a Leader this year among 20 other vendors. Learn about the 15 distinct criteria that Gartner employs to evaluate the vendors.
The report evaluates Cloudera Data Platform’s unified capabilities across both transactional and analytical use cases. We believe it showcases our innovations and strengths in several areas including data management, advanced analytics, high speed processing and ingestion, multi-cloud/hybrid support, security, and governance.
Enterprises rely on Cloudera Data Platform to manage and analyze all their data across both public and private clouds. Cloudera Data Platform accelerates the migration of all data workloads—analytics, streaming, and machine learning—to the cloud by providing an integrated platform for your digital strategy. It provides the the building blocks for deploying all modern data architectures.  













Read the full report to:

Learn more about today's requirements for cloud databases
Discover how the cloud database and analytics market is evolving 
Understand how the vendors are evaluated on the various criteria
See why Cloudera is a Leader in this market











 



 







 




 



 




2022 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud Database Management Systems, Henry Cook, Merv Adrian, Rick Greenwald, Adam Ronthal, 14 December 2022
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark, and MAGIC QUADRANT is a registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved.
This graphic was published by Gartner, Inc. as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Gartner document is available upon request from Cloudera.







 






Read the analyst report








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




