



























































Cloudera delivers the best Kafka ecosystem today




























































WHITE PAPER
Cloudera delivers the best Kafka ecosystem today
 













 




 


















Learn how Cloudera’s Kafka ecosystem ensures a sustainable and adaptable end-to-end streaming architecture. 






In order to provide excellent support to hundreds of customers on their advanced Kafka deployments, it is not enough to just have the best messaging solution at the heart of your end-to-end streaming architecture . Flow management, along with stream processing and analytics, are two additional tenets that need to be unified with streams messaging capabilities. 













Read this paper to:

Understand how all three tenets are unified through a common data experience across on-premises, hybrid, and multi-cloud environments.

Learn how the integration of Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) with the Cloudera Data Platform enables you to leverage the best Kafka ecosystem today

Get an understanding on how Cloudera’s Kafka ecosystem ensures a sustainable, scalable and adaptable end-to-end streaming architecture. 












 



 







 






Register now





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




