



























































Data warehouse optimization























































PODCAST






Data warehouse optimization
Massively scale use cases & users with ease













 


















Learn about Cloudera's perspective on data warehouse optimization






Today, modern data warehousing has evolved to meet the intensive demands the newest analytics require to be data-driven. Traditional data warehouse vendors may have maturity in data storage and modeling, yet, these legacy solutions can no longer cost-effectively meet new demands. Outlook Series' Michael Lippis interviews David Dichmann and Raman Rajasekhar to gain their perspectives on data warehouse optimization. They address many key topics including:

The needs a modern data warehouse fulfills 
The most common workload types that typically need optimization
The use cases for an organization  to scale their data volume
How organizations can better understand their migration efforts
Some favorite customer success stories










Listen to the podcast





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




