



























































Data Distribution Architecture to Drive Innovation























































Ebook
Data distribution architecture to drive innovation













 























Simplify your streaming data






Analytics is a fundamental part of your business but due to the exponential growth of data every year, it is not easy to distribute data between the source and destination systems. As the amount of data you’re handling increases, there is also a significant increase in the number of point solutions needed to move that data effectively throughout an organization and deliver it where it’s needed. 
It’s time to simplify your data pipelines so that you can connect to any data source anywhere as well as process and deliver that data to any destination with one solution rather than multiple point solutions.














Read this ebook to:

Learn how you can support active, passive, real-time, and batch data

Understand how to integrate and distribute your data regardless of where it resides

Discover how to boost developer productivity












 



 







 




 






Download ebook








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




