



























































Data lakehouse use cases | Cloudera





































Learn more



















 
Any analytics, 
 any data, anywhere






Discover Cloudera’s hybrid Open Data
Lakehouse for trusted AI.









 Watch video












 



 







 


























 










DATA LAKEHOUSE
Discover a data lakehouse that can do it all

When it comes to unlocking the power of your data, implementing a modern data architecture is key.
Built as a single platform that handles IoT, structured and unstructured, transactional data, and more, the Cloudera data lakehouse is a modern solution that eliminates data silos, enables constant collaboration, and delivers trusted data for AI. Powered by Apache Iceberg, Cloudera’s data lakehouse can handle any data format, allowing multiple engines to work on the same data simultaneously.
As the industry’s first Open Data Lakehouse, Cloudera Data Platform delivers scalable performance and efficiency to enable smarter business decisions—paving the safest, fastest path from data to AI.
 








 Learn more












 



 







 








PARTNERSHIPS
Team up with industry powerhouses







 



 













 Learn about Intel













 Learn about HPE











 













Efficiency


Performance without compromise
From massive data sources to AI, our partnership enables us to deliver the efficiency, capacity, and speed needed to make real-time analytic decisions.

 







Scale


Scale without limits
Forget petabytes. Powered by Intel and HPE hardware, our platform can handle exabytes and even zettabytes—enabling you to exponentially increase and secure the future of your data.
 







Security


Trusted data. Trusted models. Trusted AI.
Spend less time thinking about security and more time thinking about what’s next. With automated security built-in at every level, you can trust your data, trust your models, and trust your AI.
 







Grow


Future-proofed flexibility
Hybrid is here to stay. Whether you want portable data services, need to move to or from the cloud, or prefer more control of your data, we meet you where you are and help you grow into where you want to be.
 













Efficiency


Performance without compromise
From massive data sources to AI, our partnership enables us to deliver the efficiency, capacity, and speed needed to make real-time analytic decisions.

 







Scale


Scale without limits
Forget petabytes. Powered by Intel and HPE hardware, our platform can handle exabytes and even zettabytes—enabling you to exponentially increase and secure the future of your data.
 







Security


Trusted data. Trusted models. Trusted AI.
Spend less time thinking about security and more time thinking about what’s next. With automated security built-in at every level, you can trust your data, trust your models, and trust your AI.
 







Grow


Future-proofed flexibility
Hybrid is here to stay. Whether you want portable data services, need to move to or from the cloud, or prefer more control of your data, we meet you where you are and help you grow into where you want to be.
 











































































Top 8 Ways to Accelerate Your AI & Analytics Strategy
 








 See the infographic












 



 







 




 


















Ready to get started?
 Let's connect.








 Request a demo













 






CloseX
Schedule a virtual demo








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thanks for requesting a demo.

Our sales engineer will contact you soon to schedule the demo.













                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




