



























































Demystifying ML and AI | Cloudera
















































WEBINAR
Demystifying ML & AI








 Watch Now
























It's an exciting time to be thinking about machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI), but it can be challenging to figure out a practical and reasonable approach to using these capabilities. Rapidly emerging technologies, disruptive economics, and a lack of best practices can leave you uncertain where to start or how to optimize an existing approach.










In this exclusive online seminar, Hilary Mason, General Manager of Machine Learning at Cloudera, demystifies machine learning and artificial intelligence for the enterprise and discusses:


The history of machine learning
Why now is the time to think about investing
How to identify and execute on practical machine learning opportunities










 













Speaker























 



 







Hilary Mason
General Manager, Machine Learning, Cloudera
Hilary is general manager, machine learning, at Cloudera. She was the founder and CEO of Fast Forward Labs, an applied machine learning research company that Cloudera acquired in 2017. She also serves as data scientist in residence at Accel Partners, a leading global venture capital firm. Previously, Hilary was chief scientist at bitly. She co-hosts DataGotham, a conference for New York's home-grown data community, and co-founded HackNY, a non-profit that helps engineering students find opportunities in New York's creative technical economy. She is on the board of the Anita Borg Institute and an advisor to several companies, including Sparkfun Electronics and Wonder. Hilary served on Mayor Bloomberg’s Technology Advisory Board and is a member of the Brooklyn hacker collective NYC Resistor.









 








 




 















Register











                    
                    
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                




























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




