



























































Digital Transformation with IoT




























































EBOOK
Digital transformation with IoT










 



 







 




 


















Industry solutions guide to data-driven IoT






The growing emphasis on digital transformation is encouraging more organizations to adopt initiatives driven by the Internet of Things (IoT).
While such initiatives enable enterprises to enhance customer experiences, create new business channels, or acquire new partner ecosystems, gaining the insights to realize these benefits can prove to be challenging. The sheer volume of data that these devices generate, the variety of data that comes in, and the velocity in which data is collected creates its own set of challenges in terms of storage, processing power, and analytics for such enterprises.
The growth of IoT adoption has been exponential across all industries, but organizations within each industry face a unique set of challenges along this journey. Enterprises leveraging all the big data generated from IoT devices in their machine learning models are able to use prescriptive and predictive analytics to make well-informed decisions.
Read this ebook to learn about the challenges of implementing data-driven IoT, and solutions for addressing the challenges across multiple industries.









Download the ebook





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




