



























































Opportunities that hybrid and multi-cloud strategies present























































ANALYST REPORT






The economics of hybrid and multi-cloud 













 


















451 Research highlights the opportunities that hybrid and multi-cloud strategies present to the modern enterprise.
The adoption of hybrid and multi-cloud deployments in the enterprise has become an explicit IT strategy. 













According to 451 Research, more than half of enterprises are pursuing an integrated hybrid IT strategy. What’s more, more than 70% of enterprises deploy a public cloud strategy that involves more than one provider. 
Enterprises want to choose the best technologies available to them for their specific needs and hybrid and multi-cloud approaches are favored strategies.










 



 







 



Read this report to: 

Understand the economic and business opportunities of hybrid and multi-cloud strategies
Learn examples of how other companies are finding success leveraging this model 
Gather recommendations for developing a hybrid and/or multi-cloud strategy that’s best for your organization










Read the report





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            
                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488

Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




