



























































Enterprise data strategy in action: The U.S. leadership perspective























































Research Report
Enterprise data strategy in action: 
The U.S. leadership perspective













 























Understand how an enterprise data strategy is key to business resiliency






According to 91% of US IT decision makers, an enterprise data strategy is key to business resiliency. For organizations at evolutionary crossroads, the opportunity to capitalize on emerging technology has never been more important. This regional report from Forbes Insights explores how US organizations are unlocking more revenue from siloed data and turning to hybrid cloud solutions to drive insights.













Download the Forbes report to:

Discover how US organizations are using data to unlock new revenue streams

Understand ongoing data challenges IT and data decision makers face 

See why hybrid architectures are a priority for data strategy investments

Learn more about why security and governance is more critical now












 



 





 



 







 




 






Get Report








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




