



























































The Forrester WaveTM: Cloud Data Warehouse, Q1 2021 Report 
















































ANALYST REPORT
The Forrester Wave™: Cloud Data Warehouse, Q1 2021 Report







 





















Learn why Cloudera is a strong performer in cloud data warehouse category






Read this Forrester report to learn why Cloudera was named a strong performer and received the highest scores possible in the data types, performance features, scalability reference, analytics capabilities, vertical use cases criteria and six other criteria.
Data Warehouse on Cloudera Data Platform provides easy to use self-service and advanced analytics use cases at scale.  It supports auto-provisioning, cloud optimization, self-service workload management, and auto scaling capabilities. Cloudera shared data experience provides consistent data security, governance, and control across all multi-function analytics and data discovery. 













Read the report to:


Discover the providers that matter the most and how they measure up

Learn how to evaluate and select the right provider for your needs

Understand the Forrester criteria used in the evaluation












 



 







 




 



 




Forrester Wave™: Cloud Data Warehouse, Q1 2021 Report, Forrester Research, Inc.









Download the report





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



