



























































Forrester Wave HARK Cloud Hadoop and Spark































































ANALYST REPORT
The Forrester WaveTM: Cloud Hadoop/Spark Platforms, Q1 2019 Report names Cloudera a Leader













 




 




















Cloudera named a Leader for big data and Spark in Cloud Report






Looking for a Cloud solution for data engineering and analytics? Read The Forrester WaveTM: Cloud Hadoop/Spark Platforms, Q1 2019 Report and learn why Cloudera was named a Leader and received the highest score possible in the performance, data management, and security criteria.
 







 



 




Read the report to discover:

The 11 providers that matter the most and how they measure up

How to evaluate and select the right provider for your needs

The Forrester criteria used in the evaluation








Cloudera and Hortonworks were each named a Leader in the report. With the recent merger of the two companies, the best technology and product features from each company are being unified to produce the industry’s first enterprise data cloud for customers. 







 



 




The Forrester WaveTM: Cloud Hadoop/Spark Platforms, Q1 2019 Report, Forrester Research, Inc.
 









Download the report





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




