



























































Forrester Study: Data Stream Processing & Analytics Challenges























































ANALYST STUDY
The Speed Of Digital Business Demands Streaming Analytics Platforms - Now










 



 







 


















Overcome obstacles that thwart critical decisions based on real-time streaming data






Data has a shelf life. In today’s streaming architectures, data can become worthless unless enterprises can harvest it in real time and act on it within that limited window of opportunity. 
However, most enterprises are unable to prepare and analyze data in a timely manner to enable business decision making. They face key data management challenges, including data readiness, skill shortages, and infrastructure shortcomings, such as not having the correct stream processing engine for the job. 













This commissioned study conducted by Forrester Consulting, on behalf of Cloudera1, surveyed more than 150 data professionals in multiple industries and different roles to understand how organizations are currently addressing these challenges.










 



 







 



Read the study now and apply the learnings to exact true real-time insights from your own data.
 







 



 




1The Speed Of Digital Business Demands Streaming Analytics Platforms - Now, Forrester Consulting, Inc., October 2019.









Download the study





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




