



























































Forrester Wave: Data Management For Analytics






















































ANALYST REPORT
The Forrester Wave™: 
Data Management For Analytics, Q1 2020










 



 







 


















Looking for a data warehouse solution for modern and cloud analytics?
Read The Forrester Wave™: Data Management For Analytics, Q1 2020 Report and learn why Cloudera received the highest score possible in the Data Access, Data Storage, High-Availability & Disaster Recovery, Performance, Scalability, and Use Cases criteria and was named a Strong Performer.
Read the report to discover:

Which providers matter the most and how they measure up

How to evaluate and select the right provider for your needs



Which criteria Forrester used in the evaluation







Cloudera Data Warehouse on Cloudera Data Platform is an auto-scaling, highly concurrent and cost-effective analytics service that ingests high-scale data anywhere, from structured, unstructured and edge sources. It supports hybrid and multi-cloud infrastructure models by seamlessly moving workloads between on-premises and any cloud for reports, dashboards, and ad-hoc and advanced analytics—including AI—with consistent security and governance. Cloudera Data Warehouse offers zero query wait times, reduced IT costs, and agile delivery.







 



 




The Forrester Wave™: Data Management For Analytics, Q1 2020 Report, Forrester Research, Inc.









Read the report








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




