



























































Forrester TEI Report The Total Economic Impact of Cloudera Data Platform Public Cloud





























































ANALYST REPORT
The ROI of Cloudera Data Platform Public Cloud













 




 


















See how CDP Public Cloud users achieved 194% ROI in the Forrester Total Economic Impact ™ Study






Cloudera Data Platform for Public Cloud ensures that your organization is getting the efficiency and scalability of cloud-based infrastructure required to meet the analytic needs of your business.  Forrester found that CDP Public Cloud users achieved 194% ROI in the Total Economic Impact ™ (TEI) study and $35m in benefits over 3 years.













Download the report to learn how Cloudera Data Platform Public Cloud has: 

Improved cost to scale by 99% and increased time-to-value by 97.6%

Delivered 6 month payback period 

Improved decision making and adaptation to market changes












 



 







 




 



 







Download the report





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




