



























































Forrester Now Tech: IoT Data Management Solutions Q2 2019





















































ANALYST REPORT
Now Tech: IoT Data Management Solutions, Q2 2019







 





















Forrester’s Overview of 22 IoT Data Management Solution Providers 






An enterprise’s IoT initiative is only as good as its ability to harness the value of the data captured from its IoT devices in real time. Organizations will require an IoT data management solution to see true ROI with their IoT initiatives.
Forrester mentions 22 IoT vendors in this report—placing them in three categories based on annual IoT data management solution revenue—and identifies Cloudera as one of its nine "large established players ($100 million or more in category revenue).
Forrester placed Cloudera within all three segments of the IoT data management solutions market:

Cloud IoT data management, which is elastic
On-premises software-based IoT data management, which offers flexibility
Systems-based IoT data management, which focuses on optimized performance

At Cloudera, we deliver an enterprise data cloud for any data, anywhere, from the Edge to AI. Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) is a comprehensive edge-to-cloud IoT data management platform. It addresses the key data management challenges with streaming and IoT data for all types of enterprises. CDF can capture data at the edge, stream it into the enterprise or the cloud, process streams in real-time, and be able to generate actionable intelligence from that data in real-time.
 







 



 




Now Tech: IoT Data Management Solutions, Q2 2019, Forrester Research, Inc., June 6, 2019









Download the report





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




