



























































Gartner: Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Operational Use Cases Report























































Analyst Report
Gartner®: Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Operational Use Cases Report













 























Gartner recognizes Cloudera Data Platform in the 2021 Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Operational Use Cases Report.






As per our understanding, Gartner Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Operational Use Cases report appraises the Magic Quadrant™ vendor's products and technical capabilities for their suitability to support four operational Use Cases, using 12  core capabilities. These 12 critical capabilities offer a comprehensive set of benchmark functionalities that every Operational Database should have. 
This was the first year Gartner included Cloudera Data Platform Operational Database (COD) in its evaluation and we are proud to share this recognition. 













Download the full report to:

 

Get an independent analysis comparing the technical capabilities of the different Relational and Non-Relational DBMSs and their ability to support four key operational Use Cases
Discover how Cloudera ranks among all four Use Cases











 



 







 




 



 




Gartner, Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management System for Operational Use Cases, By Merv Adrian, Rick Greenwald, Adam Ronthal, Henry Cook, Philip Russom, Published December 14, 2021. This graphic was published by Gatner Inc, as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Garter document it's available upon request from www.cloudera.com
Gartner and Magic Quadrant are registered trademarks of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally, and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. 
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinion of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
 







 






Read now








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




