



























































Gartner: Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases Report























































Analyst Report
Gartner®: Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases Report













 























Gartner recognizes Cloudera (Cloudera Data Platform) in the 2021 Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases.






Gartner Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytics Use Cases report appraises vendor's products and technical capabilities for their suitability to support four analytical use cases, using 9 core capabilities. we believe  these 9 critical capabilities offer a comprehensive set of benchmark functionalities that every Analytics and BI platform should have. 
Gartner evaluated Cloudera Data Platform and its various tightly integrated data services - CDP Data Warehouse, CDP Data Engineering, CDP Data Visualization and CDP Machine Learning in this report.













Download the full report to:

Get an independent analysis of how each vendor capabilities support the four analytical use cases - Data Warehouse, Logical Data Warehouse, Data Lake and Operational Intelligence
Review Gartner’s evaluation on the nine core critical capabilities to help you choose the most ideal vendor for your analytical needs.












 



 







 




Discover how CDP performed against other cloud-native point solutions 
Read how CDP received an outstanding score for multicloud/intercloud/hybrid operations scoring higher than any vendor for its ability to provide common governance and security, and common tooling to interact with data in multiple forms and locations.









 



 




Gartner, Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases, Rick Greenwald, Merv Adrian, Adam Ronthal, Phillip Russom, Henry Cook, 14 December 2021.
Gartner is a  registered trademark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally, and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved.

Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinion of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, express or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
 







 






Read now








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




