



























































Gartner® Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases 2022 | Cloudera























































Analyst Report
2022 Gartner®: Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases













 























Gartner ® recognizes Cloudera in the 2022 Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases report






Read this complimentary report of the 2022 Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases.
This report recognized Cloudera for its products and capabilities based on 4 analytical Use Cases and 14 Core Capabilities. The findings from this research are one of the inputs into the 2022 Gartner® Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud Database Management Systems, which named Cloudera as a Leader. These 14 capabilities offer a comprehensive set of benchmark functionalities for evaluating Cloud DBMSs for analytical Use Cases. 

Global enterprises rely on Cloudera’s hybrid data platform to manage and analyze any data across both public clouds and private data centers. Cloudera supports many analytical and operational use cases on one integrated platform. 













Read the report to:

Guide evaluations for Cloud DBMSs for Analytical Use Cases

Learn how the technology considerations are changing for Analytical Use Cases 

Understand how individual vendors are evaluated on various criteria for Analytical Use Cases












 



 







 




 



 





 






Read the analyst report








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 



Gartner® Critical Capabilities for Cloud Database Management Systems for Analytical Use Cases, Rick Greenwald, Merv Adrian, Adam Ronthal, Henry Cook, Philip Russom, Xingyu Gu, 15 December 2022.
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designations. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s Research & Advisory organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner and Magic Quadrant is a registered trademark o Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission. All rights reserved.
This graphic was published by Gartner, Inc. as part of a larger research document and should be evaluated in the context of the entire document. The Gartner document is available upon request from Cloudera.














                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




