



























































Revenge of the data warehouse






















































ANALYST REPORT






Revenge of the data warehouse










 



 







 


















How a classic tech category has evolved and triumphed
The pressure to leverage data as a business asset is stronger than ever. Recent advances in storage costs and compute scalability issues, especially in the cloud, have addressed the most important challenges previously faced by data warehouse platforms. In this Giga OM report, discover today’s data warehouse landscape in the context of where the technology has been, where it is, and where it is going.
Key Findings:

The data warehouse is alive and well, perhaps enjoying its biggest popularity wave to date
Open source technology challengers addressed issues of storage costs and horizontal scalability but did not achieve parity in terms of enterprise skill-set abundance, interactive query performance, or acting as authoritative data repositories
The advent of the cloud has helped DW platforms transcend their vulnerabilities
Transcending their vulnerabilities and satisfying customers’ need for familiar SQL-relational platform paradigms has turned out to be a one-two punch for DWs
Customers need to bring themselves up-to-date on the latest DW innovations and product categories
Customers must correlate DW product categories with corporate cloud strategy










Download the paper





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




