



























































Critical Success Factors to Achieve a Better Enterprise Data Strategy in a Multi-Cloud Environment























































RESEARCH REPORT






Critical success factors to achieve a better enterprise data strategy in a multi-cloud environment













 


















Harvard Business Review Analytic Services survey points to challenges threatening to interrupt innovation.
As technology has become more powerful, more affordable, and more accessible, we are witnessing customers making breakthroughs and discoveries at a pace that was previously unimaginable. At the same time, we’ve identified new challenges emerging that threaten to interrupt that innovation.
Enterprise IT is simply not meeting business demands and users are prioritizing speed over security, accuracy, and maximum impact.
We sponsored research by Harvard Business Review Analytic Services to survey global executives to answer the following questions:

Can enterprises access all their data efficiently and at scale? 
How are organizations managing a complex ecosystem of public, hybrid, and on-premises environments? 
Do companies have a data strategy that’s working?

Download the report for insight into these questions and more as well as to assess where your organization falls in comparison.









Download the report





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




