



























































Limitless: The Positive Power of AI


















































MARKET RESEARCH REPORT

Limitless: The Positive Power of AI
Find out how the global pandemic has shifted attitudes about using technology for good
























To better understand shifting attitudes about social responsibility and using AI, ML, and data analytics for good, Cloudera—in association with independent research firm Sapio—embarked on a research project, surveying: 











 



















2,213
enterprise business decision makers 











 















54%
C-Suite representation











 















10,880
Knowledge workers











 






 












Highlights from the survey











 












26%  of business decision makers are now putting 'increasing investment in environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG)' ahead of developing new products/services or accelerating financial growth.






Knowledge workers believe as much as  49%  of the data their business uses on a day-to-day basis should be focused on doing good for the communities it serves.






52%  of business decision makers agree that profit and ESG are no longer mutually exclusive pursuits.











 












Read the report to learn more:











 























 


















 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




