



























































Modernizing The Enterprise Data Warehouse With The Cloud























































ANALYST REPORT






Modernizing the enterprise data warehouse with the cloud













 


















Learn why the modern data warehouse remains a critical component in a robust data analytics platform (DAP).






As enterprise data warehouses evolve to become modern data warehouses in the cloud, they still hold a significant role as a vital component of an enterprise data analytics platform.













The reality is that this evolution will be a hybrid-cloud architecture that requires shared and unified capabilities to represent both cloud and on-premises environments as a single data analytics platform for the business.
A multi-cloud architecture will be likely for many companies as data gravity from more data sources shifts data processing among clouds, requiring open data architecture principles and furthering the need for enterprise data unification and governance.










 



 







 



Download this report to learn about:

The role of the data warehouse in an enterprise data analytics platform
The modern state of data analytics and the data warehouse
The benefits of a hybrid-cloud modern data warehouse
The evolution to a multi-cloud modern data warehouse without limitations










Download the report





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




