



























































Scaling NiFi for the enterprise with Cloudera DataFlow























































EBOOK






Scaling NiFi for the enterprise with Cloudera DataFlow
 













 


















Switch to managed NiFi support for faster pipelines and greater scale






Open source NiFi offers organizations the flexibility to build sophisticated data pipelines. But a DIY approach to supporting NiFi open source can fall short when it comes to performance at enterprise scale. By moving from open source to Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) for managed support, you get the best of both worlds: the versatility you want from NiFi with the scale and security you need. Plus, you could save up to 50% on resource utilization costs. 













Read our latest guide to: 

Learn about challenges organizations face with open source NiFi 

Discover how a packaged offering with enterprise support can improve the reliability of your data flows 

Understand what to expect when switching from NiFi open source to Cloudera DataFlow 



See how Cloudera DataFlow is having a positive impact on organizations across industries

 










 



 







 






Read now





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

































































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




