



























































Cloud at Scale for Modern Data Warehousing: New Approaches for New Business Uses and Technical Requirements























































ANALYST REPORT






Cloud at scale for modern data warehousing













 


















New approaches for new business uses and technical requirements






A recent TDWI survey reveals that the cloud is firmly established as a viable platform for data warehousing.In a related trend, organizations of many sizes and industries continue to modernize their data warehouses so they can keep pace with evolving data and growing data-driven practices in analytics and self-service. These two trends intersect such that data warehouse modernization and cloud adoption often go hand in hand. This webinar will discuss both practices, with a focus on coordinating the two.













Download this report to:







1. Understand the weaknesses and omissions of your current data warehouse before planning its modernization and migration to the cloud
2. Understand the new analytics demanded by your business and how a modernized cloud data warehouse can support these










 



 







 



3. Embrace the cloud for its benefits to the modern data warehouse

4. Decide which pieces of data warehouse architecture to retain versus those to replace with a cloud solution

5. Consider a hybrid architecture for your modern data warehouse

6. Develop a detailed, phased plan for data warehouse modernization and cloud migration










Download the report








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




