



























































Data Architecture for IoT Communications and Analytics























































Analyst Report
Data Architecture for IoT Communications and Analytics
 













 























Evolve your data architecture for an IoT environment
 






The foundation of a successful Internet of Things (IoT) implementation is a technical architecture that blends network connectivity with an information architecture for streaming, ingesting, and capturing data. This foundation must be coupled with a means of analyzing the data and pushing those models back to the edge nodes in the IoT network.
Executing this vision demands discipline when it comes to data management and oversight, requiring information models for simplified integration.


















Read this checklist for suggestions to evolve your data architecture for an IoT environment and:

Understand how to envision, design, and govern the flow of data in motion

Uncover ways to leverage intelligent stream processing

Discover how to make the edge intelligent and self-reliant 

Explore many other fundamental aspects of the data architecture necessary for IoT success


 










 



 







 




 




 






Read the analyst report








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




