Understanding Workload XMCloudera Docs
Understanding Workload XM
Workload XM is a Cloudera service that helps you interactively understand
  your workloads, clusters, and resources. Its wide range of metrics and health tests help you
  identify and troubleshoot existing and potential problems and the prescriptive guidance and
  recommendations help you quickly address and optimize those problems. 
  When a workload completes, diagnostic information
   about the job or query and the cluster that processed them is collected by Telemetry Publisher, a
   role in the Cloudera Manager Management Service, and sent to Workload XM.
Workload XM enables you to interactively understand your workloads, clusters, and
   resources, and optimize your systems through:
A wide range of metrics and health tests that help you identify and troubleshoot issues and
     potential issues.
Prescriptive guidance and recommendations that help you quickly address and optimize those
     problems.
Performance baselines and historical analysis that help you identify and address performance
     problems.

In addition, Workload XM also enables you to:
Visually display your workload cluster’s current and historical costs that help you plan and
     forecast budgets, future workload environments, and justify current user groups and
     resources.
Trigger actions in real-time across jobs and queries that help you take steps to alleviate
     potential problems. 
Enable the daily delivery of your cluster statistics to your email address that help you to
     track, compare, and monitor without having to log in to the cluster.
Break down your workload metrics into more meaningful views for your business requirements
     that help you analyze specific workload criteria. For example, you can analyze how queries that
     access a particular database or that use a specific resource pool are performing against your
     SLAs. Or you can examine how all the queries are performing on your cluster that are sent by a
     specific user. 


