About the Workload XM User InterfaceCloudera Docs
About the Workload XM User Interface 
Provides a brief introduction to the web interface and frequently used interface
    elements of Workload XM. 
The Workload XM UI displays graphical reports of the health, performance, and status
      of your workloads, workload clusters, and resources. Its dashboard components include
      statistics, performance, health, and prescription guidance visually displayed in chart widgets
      or tabular views. 
The navigation side-bar enables access to the following Workload XM features and
      engine services:
Summary, which opens the Cluster Summary page that visually displays information about
          your cluster and engine health.
Workloads, which opens the Workload Views page that enables you to create, view,
          monitor, and manage views specific to your business requirements.
Auto Actions, which opens the Auto Actions page that enables you to create, view,
          monitor, and manage your Auto Actions.
Chargeback, which opens the Chargeback page that enables you to create, view, monitor,
          and manage cost centers specifically for your workloads.
Engines, which lists the Workload XM engine workload services:
Impala
Spark
Hive
Oozie
MapReduce
When an engine is selected, the engine's chart widgets display information about
            the workloads serviced by the selected engine, such as which jobs or queries have failed
            or are slow, their processing time, missed SLAs, user and pool metrics, and outlier
            issues. The Impala and Workload View chart widgets also display information about the
            CPU and Memory usage, the tables used for your Impala queries, and the SQL statement
            types. 

About the Workload XM Chart Widgets
The Workload XM chart widgets enable you to quickly observe real-time and
        historical patterns, trends, and outliers of your workload data. They provide quick insights
        into the health and performance of your workloads, clusters, and resources. Where:
Hovering over an element with your mouse pointer, such as over a time-line or a data
            point, displays more information about the element underneath.
Clicking a link within a chart widget or a bar within bar chart widget, such as the
              Suboptimal bar chart widget, opens the engine's Jobs or Queries
            page that contains more information in a tabular view for you to investigate
            further.


About the Jobs and Queries Pages
Depending on the engine chosen, the engine's Jobs or Queries page provides information
        about each of the jobs or queries that are serviced by the engine. You can filter further by
        selecting a filter option from one of the filter categories; Pool, User, Status, Health
        Check, or Duration. 
For more information about a specific job's or query's health, execution details, baseline,
        and trends, open their respective page by clicking its link in the Job or Query column and
        selecting the tab of interest. As well as providing more details for you to investigate
        further, these pages also provide prescriptive guidance and recommendations that enable you
        to address and optimize problems.


Using the Workload XM User InterfaceDescribes a few frequently used interface elements of Workload XM that help     you identify and troubleshoot your workload issues.