Using the Workload XM User InterfaceCloudera Docs
Using the Workload XM User Interface
Describes a few frequently used interface elements of Workload XM that help
    you identify and troubleshoot your workload issues.
The following examples describe a few interface elements of  Workload XM that enable
      you to quickly identify workload problems, health issues, resource contentions, and abnormal
      or degraded performance problems. 

noteThese examples assume that you have logged into the Workload XM web UI.

Identify Workload problems and Health Issues
Quickly locate what engines are running on your clusters and what jobs and queries are failing
    the health tests with the following chart widgets:
The Usage Analysis chart widget, which displays what engines are
            running on the cluster, how many jobs or queries are processed by the engine, and how
            many jobs or queries have failed and missed their
                SLA.Location: This chart widget is found on the Cluster
              Summary page, which is accessed by selecting the workload cluster for analysis and
              then from the navigation side-bar, selecting Summary.
The Suboptimal chart widget, which displays the distribution of jobs
            and the jobs and queries that failed. This chart widget enables you to visually see at a
            glance what issues are currently impacting your jobs or queries and how they are
            executing on your cluster:

Location: This chart widget is found on the
                engine's page after selecting the workload cluster for analysis
              and then from the navigation side-bar, selecting an engine.
            


Identify and Address Resource Contentions
Workload XM provides the following chart widgets that help you analyze and identify
    resource consumption and contention problems:
Location: The following chart widgets are found on the Cluster
            Summary page, which are accessed by selecting the workload cluster for analysis and then
            from the navigation side-bar, selecting Summary: 
The Resource Consumption By Services chart widget displays
                the CPU and memory consumption for each service across the time range you selected.
                Hover your mouse over the time line, to display the amount of CPU or memory, as a
                percentage, that is consumed by each of the cluster's services.


The Resource Consumption By Nodes chart widget displays the
                CPU and memory consumption for each node in the cluster. Hover your mouse over the
                time line, to display the amount of CPU or memory, as a percentage, that is consumed
                by each node and its services.



Location: The following chart widgets are found on the
              engine's page, which is accessed by selecting the workload cluster
            for analysis and then from the navigation side-bar, selecting
              Impala:
The Memory Utilization chart widget, displays the
                aggregated maximum amount of memory that is used by the queries on any node
                performing the processing. It helps you identify inefficient queries that are
                consuming the most amount of memory during processing and if you need to allocate
                more memory to continue running your queries.
The Resource Consumption chart widget, displays the
                concurrent use of CPU and memory consumption for a workload across the time line you
                  selected.





Identify and Address Abnormal or Degraded Performance Problems
Workload XM enables you to identify and address abnormal or degraded performance
    problems by establishing baselines from health issues that also enable a performance comparison
    of your workloads. The Workload XM baseline metrics measure the current performance
    of a job against the average performance of previous runs. They use performance data from 30 of
    the most recent runs of a job and require a minimum of three runs. The baseline comparisons
    start with the fourth run of a job.
The following images show some of the baseline and comparison metrics that are provided:
This image shows the comparison between the baseline performance metrics and the current
            job run:


To display only those metrics with performance issues, select Show only abnormal
              metrics:



Location: The baseline for a job or a query is found on the Baseline
        page, which is accessed by selecting the workload cluster for analysis and then from the
        navigation side-bar, selecting Summary. In the
          Trend chart widget, select the engine tab for analysis and then,
        depending on the engine, click Total Jobs or Total
          Queries. From the Jobs or Queries page, select the job or query of interest
        and then select the Baseline tab. noteRequires at least four job runs for Workload XM to create the job or query's
          baseline.


Identify Performance Trends
You can identify trends as well as baselines by analyzing your engine’s or cluster’s
    performance trends from the Trends chart widget and the
     Trend tab. Where:
The Trends time-series chart widget, displays more detailed metrics
            about the processed jobs and queries and enables you to view historical trends for
            analysis when you select a predefined or custom time period from the
              Range filter list. 

Location: This chart widget is found on the
                engine's page, which is accessed by selecting the workload
              cluster for analysis and then from the navigation side-bar, selecting the
                engine of interest.
The Trends tab, displays the job or query's instances executed
            during the selected time range. Depending on the engine, the Trends page displays a
            job's historical trend from Duration, Data Input, and Data Output histogram charts or
            lists the runs of the query to show how its performance changes
                overtime.Location: This chart widget is found on the Jobs
              or Query's page, which is accessed by selecting the workload cluster for analysis and
              then from the navigation side-bar, selecting the engine of
              interest. Depending on the engine chosen, from the Trends chart widget, click
                Total Jobs or Total Queries and then
              from the Jobs or Queries page, select the job or query of interest and then select the
                Trends tab.



Parent topic: About the Workload XM User Interface