Potential SQL IssuesCloudera Docs
Potential SQL Issues
Lists the most common SQL mistakes made during statement creation that are identified
    as potential issues by Workload XM. The Health Check list, on the engine’s Queries
    page, categorizes the health tests. For example, for Hive, MapReduce, Oozie, and Spark engines,
    the Insufficient Partitioning and Many Materialized
      Columns health checks, test for query and schema issues.
Table 1. Common SQL Issues

Potential SQL Issue
Impact
Recommendation



>5 table joins or > 10 join conditions
              found.

Possible performance impact, depending on the size of a table, partitioning keys,
                and filter and join conditions that are specified in the query.


To address this issue, denormalize tables to eliminate the need for joins.



>10 columns present in GROUP BY list.

Possible performance impact, depending on the number of distinct groups and the
                memory configuration. noteThis issue is not raised if the
                  source platform is Impala.


To address this issue, evaluate the memory requirements for the query.



>10 Inline Views present in query.

Possible performance impact, depending on the memory configuration, especially if
                complex expressions are present in inline views on Impala.


To address this issue, evaluate the memory requirements and materialize inline
                views.



>50 query blocks present in large query.

Possible performance impact, depending on the memory configuration. 


To address this issue, evaluate the query memory requirements, split the query into
                smaller queries, and materialize duplicate blocks.



>2000 expressions found in WHERE clause of a single
                query.

This is a hard limit enforced by Impala. The query fails if it contains >2000
                expressions. 


To address this issue, consolidate expressions by replacing repetitive sequences
                with single operators like IN or BETWEEN.



Cartesian or CROSS join found.

Performance impact if tables are large. 


To address this issue, rewrite the query by adding join conditions and eliminate
                Cartesian joins.



High cardinality GROUP BY column found.

Possible performance impact, depending on the number of distinct groups and the
                memory configuration. 


To address this issue, evaluate the memory requirements for the query.



Joins across large tables found.

Possible performance impact, depending on the partitioning keys, and filter and
                join conditions that are specified in the query.


To determine the cause, evaluate the EXPLAIN output on Impala. 
To address this issue, evaluate the filter and join conditions, the query's memory
                requirements, and consider table partitioning strategies.



Join on a large table found.

Possible performance impact, depending on the partitioning keys, and filter and
                join conditions that are specified in the query. 


To determine the cause, evaluate the EXPLAIN output on Hive or
                Impala. 
To address this issue, evaluate the filter and join conditions, the query's memory
                requirements, and consider table partitioning strategies.



Many single-row inserts found.

Possible performance impact when using singleton inserts that create multiple small
                files instead of less large files. 


To address this issue, batch inserts together, which prevents the creation of
                multiple small data files.



Popular CASE expression across queries found.

Possible performance improvement.
Consider materializing the CASE expression.




Popular filter conditions found.

Possible performance impact if the tables are large and are not partitioned. 


To address this issue, consider table partitioning strategies on the filter
                conditions.



Popular inline views across queries found.

Possible performance impact, depending on the memory configuration, especially if
                complex expressions are used in inline views on Impala.


To address this issue, consider materializing the inline view.



Popular subqueries across queries found.

Possible performance improvement. 
Consider materializing the subqueries.




Query has no filters.

Possible performance impact, if the result set that is returned is very large.


To address this issue, rewrite the query by adding filtering conditions that reduce
                the size of the result set that is returned.



Query on partitioned table is missing filters on partitioning
                columns.

Possible performance impact if the tables are large. 


To address this issue, rewrite the query by adding filtering conditions.



Query with filter conditions on a large table
              found.

Possible performance impact if the tables are large and are not partitioned. 


To address this issue, consider table partitioning strategies on the filter
                conditions.



Query with inline views found.

Possible performance impact, depending on the memory configuration, especially if
                complex expressions are used in inline views on Impala. 


To address this issue, if the inline view is duplicated, evaluate whether
                materializing the inline view is advantageous.



Table might contain too many partitions (>30K).

May crash the Hive Metastore. 


To address this issue, re-evaluate the partitioning key strategy, as queries that
                access multiple partitions are unlikely to finish processing.



Table might contain too many partitions (>50K).
May crash the Hive Metastore. 

To address this issue, re-evaluate the partitioning key strategy, as queries that
                access multiple partitions are unlikely to finish processing.



Table might contain too many partitions
              (>100K).

May crash the Hive Metastore. 


To address this issue, re-evaluate the partitioning key strategy, as queries that
                access multiple partitions are unlikely to finish processing.



Unsupported commands: UPDATE or DELETE.

The UPDATE and DELETE commands are not supported
                on CDH. 


To address this issue, rewrite the query with views or partitioning strategies that
                mimic UPDATE and DELETE. For example, using the
                partition-based INSERT with OVERWRITE or
                  SELECT with views over main and
                  delta tables are common workaround strategies.




Parent topic: Workload XM Reference Overview