



























































Enabling Intelligent Connected Vehicles with a Connected Data Lifecycle




























































The Fusion Project
Enabling intelligent connected vehicles with a connected data lifecycle
A multi-party automotive industry technology collaboration to define a data lifecycle platform for enabling and optimizing future connected and autonomous vehicle systems.








 Schedule a demo























 



 







 






















“There are many facets to a next-generation data management technology stack that continuously improves and deploys AI machine learning models, so automakers need a vehicle-to-cloud solution like the one created by The Fusion Project that leverages key technologies from across the automotive ecosystem.”
 - Phil Magney, Founder and President, VSI Labs










 

















Train connected vehicle AI/ML models faster with higher accuracy and lower cost











 











 



 




data accuracy










 



 




data reduction










 



 




faster ML model training









 























      
      
      Ebook
      









 



 




Enabling intelligent connected vehicles with a connected data lifecycle








 Read now










      
      
      Demo
      









 



 




The Fusion Project Technical Overview








 Watch now











 








 























 



The Fusion Project collaborators

























 



 





 



 




Airbiquity contributes to connected data lifecycle solutions with over-the-air software management
Learn more





















 



 





 



 




Cloudera contributes to connected data lifecycle solutions with its’ edge to cloud data management platform
Learn more
 





















 



 





 



 




NXP Semiconductors contributes to connected data lifecycle solutions with its vehicle processing platforms
Learn more
 









 































 



 





 



 




Teraki contributes to connected data lifecycle solutions with edge data artificial Intelligence
Learn more



















 



 







Accelerating time-to-market with open source for car systems








 Read now











 




 



 




Wind River contributes to connected data lifecycle solutions with intelligent edge system software
Learn more









 








 





Schedule a demo





                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thank you for requesting a demo. We'll contact you within 24 hours to set up a day and time to show you The Fusion Project.



















                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




