How Ozone manages write operationsCloudera Docs
How Ozone manages write operations
The client requests blocks from the Ozone Manager (OM) to write a key. OM returns the
    Block ID and the corresponding DataNodes for the client to write data.
The following steps explain how Ozone manages write operations:

The client requests blocks from OM to write a key. The request includes the key, the
        pipeline type, and the replication count.
OM finds the blocks that match the request from SCM and returns them to the client.
noteIf security is enabled on the cluster, OM also provides a block token along with the
            block location to the client. The client uses the block token to connect to the
            DataNodes and send the command to write chunks of data.

The client connects to the DataNodes associated with the returned block information and
        writes the data.
After writing the data, the client updates the block information on OM by sending a commit
        request.
OM records the associated key information.note

Keys in Ozone are not visible until OM commits the block information associated with
              the keys. The client is responsible for sending the key-block information to OM after
              it has written the blocks on the DNs via a commit request.
If OM fails to commit block information for keys after they have been written, for
              example, client was unable to send the commit request OM because the write job failed,
              the keys would not be visible but the data would remain on disk. HDDS-4123: OpenKeyCleanup service in
                Ozone cleans up data on disk whose block information has not been committed on OM.
                It does by expiring open keys that have not been committed for a configurable time
                period (7days by default). OM checks for expired keys every 300s by default and
                issues deletes for these keys. Any data associated with these keys are deleted when
                the deletes reach DNs. You can contact Cloudera support and request a Hotfix for
                  HDDS-4123 to get this feature.




Parent topic: Introduction to Ozone