Ozone architectureCloudera Docs
Ozone architecture
Ozone can be co-located with HDFS with single security and governance policies for easy
    data exchange or migration and also offers seamless application portability. Ozone has a
    scale-out architecture with minimal operational overheads. Ozone separates management of
    namespaces and storage, helping it to scale effectively. The Ozone Manager (OM) manages the
    namespaces while the Storage Container Manager (SCM) handles the containers. All the metadata
    stored on OM SCM and data nodes are required to be stored in low latency devices like NVME or
    SSD.
The following diagram shows the components that form the basic architecture of Ozone:




Ozone Manager
The Ozone Manager (OM) is a highly available namespace manager for Ozone. OM
                        manages the metadata for volumes, buckets, and keys. OM maintains the
                        mappings between keys and their corresponding Block IDs. When a client
                        application requests for keys to perform read and write operations, OM
                        interacts with SCM for information about blocks relevant to the read and
                        write operations, and provides this information to the client. OM uses
                            Apache Ratis (Raft protocol) to replicate Ozone manager state. While
                            RocksDB (embedded storage engine) persists the metadata or keyspace, the
                            flush of the Ratis transaction to the local disk ensures data durability
                            in Ozone. Therefore,  a low-latency local storage device like NVMe SSD
                            on each OM node for maximum throughput is required. A typical Ozone
                            deployment has three OM nodes for redundancy.
DataNodes
Ozone DataNodes, not the same as HDFS DataNodes, store the actual user data in
                        the Ozone cluster. DataNodes store the blocks of data that clients write. A
                        collection of these blocks is a storage container. The client streams data
                        in the form of fixed-size chunk files (4MB) for a block. The chunk files
                        constitute what gets actually written to the disk. The DataNode sends
                        heartbeats to SCM at fixed time intervals. With every heartbeat, the
                        DataNode sends container reports.Every storage container in the
                            DataNode has its own RocksDB instance which stores the metadata for the
                            blocks and individual chunk files. Every DataNode can be a part of one
                            or more active pipelines. A pipeline of DataNodes is actually a Ratis
                            quorum with an elected leader and follower DataNodes accepting writes.
                            Reads from the client go directly to the DataNode and not over Ratis. An
                            SSD on a DataNode to persist the Ratis logs for the active pipelines and
                            significantly boosts the write throughput is required.
Storage Container Manager
The Storage Container Manager (SCM) is a master service in Ozone.A storage container
                    is the replication unit in Ozone. Unlike HDFS, which manages block-level replication,
                    Ozone manages the replication of a collection of storage blocks called storage
                    containers. The default size of a container is 5 GB. SCM manages DataNode pipelines and
                    placement of containers on the pipelines. A pipeline is a collection of DataNodes based
                    on the replication factor. For example, given the default replication factor of three,
                    each pipeline contains three DataNodes. SCM is responsible for creating and managing
                    active write pipelines of DataNodes on which the block allocation happens.The
                        client directly writes blocks to open containers on the DataNode, and the SCM is not
                        directly on the data path. A container is immutable after it is closed. SCM uses RocksDB
                        to persist the pipeline metadata and the container metadata. The size of this metadata
                        is much smaller compared to the keyspace managed by OM.SCM is a highly available
                            component which makes use of Apache Ratis. Cloudera recommends an SSD on SCM nodes for
                            the Ratis write-ahead log and the RocksDB.A typical Ozone deployment has three
                                SCM nodes for redundancy. SCM service instances can be collocated with OM instances;
                                therefore, you can use the same master nodes for both SCM and OM.
Recon Server
Recon is a centralized monitoring and management service within an Ozone cluster that
                    provides information about the metadata maintained by different Ozone components such as
                    OM and SCM.Recon takes a snapshot of the OM and SCM metadata while also receiving
                        heartbeats from the Ozone DataNode. Recon asynchronously builds an offline copy of the
                        full state of the cluster in an incremental manner depending on how busy the cluster is.
                        Recon usually trails the OM by a few transactions in terms of updating its snapshot of
                        the OM metadata. Cloudera recommends using an SSD for maintaining the snapshot
                        information because an SSD would help Recon in staying updated with the OM.
Ozone File System Interfaces
Ozone is a multi-protocol storage system with support for the following interfaces:
s3: Amazon’s Simple Storage Service (S3) protocol. You can use S3
                        clients and S3 SDK-based applications without any modifications on Ozone with S3 Gateway.
o3: An object store interface that can be used from the Ozone shell. 
ofs: A Hadoop-compatible filesystem (HCFS) allowing any application that
                        expects an HDFS-like interface to work against Ozone with no API changes. Frameworks like
                        Apache Spark, YARN and Hive work against Ozone without the need of any change.
o3fs: (Deprecated, not recommended) A bucket-rooted Hadoop-compatible filesystem (HCFS) interface.

S3 Gateway
S3 gateway is a stateless component that provides REST access to Ozone over HTTP and
                    supports the AWS-compatible s3 API. S3 gateway supports multipart uploads and encryption
                    zones. In addition, S3 gateway transforms the s3 API calls over HTTP to rpc calls to
                        other Ozone components. To scale your S3 access, Cloudera recommends deploying
                    multiple gateways behind a load balancer like haproxy that support Direct
                    Server Return (DSR) so that the load balancer is not on the data path.


Parent topic: Introduction to Ozone