Scientific display formatCloudera Docs
Scientific display format


Data Visualization enables you to specify scientific display format for a numerical field,
        both in exponential form, and using unit abbreviation.
Scientific number notation is fully supported by the Scientific category. The
        following steps demonstrate how to use this display format.
Data Visualization offers two built-in options for Scientific formatting: Exponential, and
        Unit Abbreviation.
Click the field you plan to modify, to open the Field
            Properties menu.Under Field Properties, click Display
            Format.In the Display Format interface, select Scientific
          from the Category menu.Make adjustments as needed:

Under Unit Notation, select either Exponential or
                Unit abbreviation.
Under Decimal Places, change the number of decimals. 
To show no decimals, clear the Decimal Places text box. 
To show all decimals, select the All option.

Click Save.

Click Refresh Visual.
Scientific format with exponential notation
We are using the Encyclopedia of Starsdataset, based on a datafile.

Create a new table visual on the dataset.
Place the field proper_name on the Dimensions
          shelf, and the field lightyears on the Measures
          shelf.
Change the Format Display for lightyears to
            Scientific.
Under Unit Notation, select Exponential, and click
            Save.

Click Refresh Visual.


Notice the change to the number format in column lightyears.




Scientific format with unit abbreviation
We are using the Encyclopedia of Starsdataset, based on a datafile.

Create a new table visual on the dataset.
Place the field proper_name on the Dimensions
          shelf, and the following fields on the Measures
            shelf:lightyears, cartesian_x,
            cartesian_y, cartesian_z,
            cartesian_velocity_x, cartesian_velocity_y, and
            cartesian_velocity_z.
Change the Format Display for all fields on the
            Measures shelf to Scientific, with the Unit
            Abbreviation option, and click Save.
Click Refresh Visual.

Notice the change to the number format between the tables:




Parent topic: Customizing display format