Changing field typeCloudera Docs
Changing field type
 Cloudera Data Visualization visuals enable you to change the type of the field as a
      cast operation of the form cast(expr as type), directly on
    the fields of the visual. Similarly, you can ensure that a field on a Geo shelf can be used even
    if it does not automatically satisfy Geo naming conventions.
To change the field type, follow these steps:
Click the field you plan to modify, to open the FIELD PROPERTIES
          menu.

Under FIELD PROPERTIES, click to expand the Change
            Type menu.





From the Change Type menu, select one of the options.

Timestamp

Timestamp casts data to TIMESTAMP,
                      cast([field] as TIMESTAMP) of the form
                    year-month-Date hour:minute:second.
For example: 2015-06-09 14:15:45.

String

String casts data as STRING,
                    cast([field]as STRING).

Integer

Integer casts data to BIGINT,
                    cast([field]as BIGINT).

Real

Real casts data to REAL, cast([field]as
                    REAL).
noteREAL is an alias for DOUBLE.

Boolean

Boolean casts data to BOOLEAN,
                    cast([field]as BOOLEAN).

Geo Types

Geo Types is a grouping of types that make the field usable on the
                    Geo shelf of Map and
                    Interactive Map visuals.

Latitude makes the field useable as a latitude
                    measurement
Longitude makes the field useable as a longitude
                    measurement
Country makes the field useable as a country
                    region
State makes the field useable as a state region, for
                    United States of America
County makes the field useable as a county region, for
                    United States of America
DMA makes the field useable as a Nielsen Designated
                    Market Area Region, for United States of America
ZIP Code/Postal Code makes the field useable as a
                    defined zipcode region, for United States of America or postal code for other
                    countries
Shape ID makes the field useable as a shape ID

Note that after a field becomes useable for geo visuals, it is marked on the
                  shelf by the (globe) icon.



Alternatively, a user with sufficient privileges should declare the field a Geo
                  Type at the level of the dataset. See Specifying Geographic
                  Fields.



Click REFRESH VISUAL to see the changes.

Fields that carry a type change have a green dot on the Change
              Type menu.
To remove a type cast from a field, click on the selected type cast. It removes the
            check mark.


Related informationSpecifying geographic fields