Percentage display formatCloudera Docs
Percentage display format


Data Visualization enables you to specify percentage format for a numerical field.
tipThe % operation automatically multiplies the number by 100. If your data
        source reports percentages as whole numbers ('2%' is stored as '2' instead of '0.02'), you
        must divide by 100 first. Cloudera recommends that you make this adjustment globally, in the
        Dataset Attribute Definition interface, as described in Changing Column
          Calculation.
The following steps demonstrate how to properly use percentages, the % format option, with
        display format.
Click the field you plan to modify, to open the Field
            Properties menu.Under Field Properties, click Display
            Format.In the Display Format interface, select Percentage
          from the Category menu.Make adjustments as needed:

Under Decimal Places, change the number of decimals.
To show no decimals, clear the Decimal Places text box.
To show all decimals, select the All option.
Select the Use 1000 separator option.

Click Save.


Click Refresh Visual.
Percentage Display with Cereals Dataset
Here, we are using a basic table visual built in the Cereals dataset.


Start a Table visual on the Cereals dataset.


Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions,
              Measures, and so on) in the Data
            menu.

Place cereal_name on the Dimensions
              shelf.
Place calories, protein_grams,
                fat_grams, dietary_fiber_grams, complex
                carbohydrates_grams, sugars_grams, and
                sodium_mg on the Measures shelf.



[Optional] Use Alias to rename the fields on the shelf to % Daily Calories, %
              Daily Protein, and so on.


Ensure that the aggregation function used by the measure is
              Average, for calculations in the next step. See
              Aggregates.


To calculate the percentage of daily recommended intake that a portion of each cereal
            represents, edit the expression of each field to divide by daily values.
Table 1. Daily Intake Recommendations

Calories
Protein
Fats
Fiber
Carbohydrates
Sugar
Sodium



2000 cal
50 grams
70 grams
30 grams
310 grams
90 grams
2300 milligrams




Set the display format for the re-calculated fields.
For all the fields on the Measures shelf, change the
              Display Format to Percentage, select a 2- decimal
            display, and click Save.


Click Refresh Visual.
Note that the visual's display has the specified format, the % sign, and 2 decimal
            places.




Related informationCreating calculated fieldsParent topic: Customizing display format