Creating a flow definition in NiFiCloudera Docs
Creating a flow definition in NiFi
Before you can run a data flow in Cloudera DataFlow, you need to (1) create the flow
    in Apache NiFi, (2) download the NiFi flow as a flow definition, (3) import it to Cloudera
    DataFlow and finally, (4) deploy the flow. The flow definition acts as a configuration logic for
    your flow deployments. It enables you to deploy your data flow without the need to maintain
    cluster infrastructure. Also, you can deploy the same flow to multiple environments in Cloudera
    DataFlow. 

When you want to develop a NiFi flow that you intend to use in Cloudera DataFlow, review
        and adjust your traditional NiFi flow development process to make sure that you can create
        portable data flows that will work in the Cloudera DataFlow environment. Before you get
        started with flow development, it is useful to understand where you need special attention
        and what adjustments you have to make in your development workflow.
You can create and download flow definitions starting with version 1.11 of Apache NiFi.
        Cloudera provides the following Apache NiFi based products:

Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub
CFM 1.1.0 and higher
HDF 3.5

Cloudera recommends that you develop your flow definitions using CDP Data Hub Flow
        Management clusters. For more information on how to set up a managed and secured Flow
        Management cluster in CDP Public Cloud, see Setting up your Flow Management
          cluster.
For more information on planning and preparing your NiFi flows for Cloudera DataFlow, see
          Best Practices for Developing Flow Definitions.

Create a process group that will contain your NiFi flow.
Drag and drop the process group icon onto the canvas.
Add a name for the process group.Once you have the new process
              group available on the canvas, you can interact with it by right-clicking it and
              selecting an option from the context menu. The available options vary depending on the
              privileges assigned to you.
Enter the process group by double-clicking it.Alternatively, you can
          select the Enter group option from the context menu.Add the appropriate flow components to the NiFi canvas.You can add
          processors and other components to build your data flow. To add a processor to your flow,
          drag the processor icon to the canvas and select the name of the processor from the
          list.Configure the components in your data flow.Make sure that you
          externalize the component properties where values change depending on the environment in
          which the data flow is running. For more information on parameterizing your processor
          configurations, see Best Practices for Flow Definition
          Development.
Create a parameter context for your data flow and add parameters to
              it.
Using parameters for certain properties (for example, connection information,
                truststores, or drivers) makes the flow portable. You can download your data flow
                from NiFi and then import it to Cloudera DataFlow as a flow definition. When you
                deploy the flow definition, you can specify values or upload files for these
                parameters in the deployment wizard to adjust them to your needs.
For instructions on how to set up your parameters, see Best Practices for
                  Flow Definition Development.

Create controller services for your flow.
If you want to add controller services to your flow that you will later use in
                Cloudera Dataflow, you must define the controller services in the configuration of
                the process group that you will download as a flow definition. In this case the
                services will be available to all processors in that process group and will be
                available in Cloudera DataFlow as well, when you import your flow definition.
important
The only exception to the rule that controller services must be defined
                  in the process group that you plan to export, is when you use the Default NiFi
                    SSL Context Service controller service in Data Hub Flow Management clusters.
                  If a property references a controller service with that exact name, Default
                    NiFi SSL Context Service, DataFlow creates a matching controller service
                  when deploying the flow. The controller service points to a truststore that is
                  setup with the environment’s FreeIPA root certificate. This allows you to
                  reference this controller service when interacting with CDP services that require
                  TLS and are running in the same environment.

For more information and instructions on how to set up your controller services,
                see Best Practices for Flow Definition Development.

Configure each processor (and any other components) in your flow with the
              required values by double-clicking it.Alternatively, you can right-click
              the processor and select the Configure option from the
              processor’s context menu.Parameterize component properties and use controller
                services in the configuration where needed. You can use the parameters you
                previously created or you can also create new parameters as you configure the
                components in your flow. To create a new parameter for a property, select the
                  (Convert to Parameter) icon in the property’s
                row.noteTo reference a parameter, the process group must first be assigned a
                parameter context. Processors and controller services of a process group can only
                reference parameters within the parameter context assigned to the process
                group.importantA process group can only be assigned one
                parameter context, while a given parameter context can be assigned to multiple
                process groups.
After configuring the processors and other data flow components, click
                Apply.
Connect the components in the data flow and configure the connections.Check your data flow to make sure that configuration of all components and
          connections is valid.
Your NiFi flow is ready to be downloaded as a JSON
      file.
Download the data flow as a flow definition from NiFi and
      import it to Cloudera DataFlow.

Related informationSetting up your Flow Management clusterBest Practices for Developing Flow DefinitionsDownloading a Flow DefinitionImporting Flow DefinitionsDeploying FlowsParameters in Apache NiFi User Guide