Debug Web UI for Impala DaemonCloudera Docs
Debug Web UI for Impala Daemon
You can use the Impala Daemon (impalad) Web UI to view
    information about configuration settings, running and completed queries, and
    associated performance and resource usage for queries. To debug and troubleshoot an impalad using a
      web-based interface, open the URL
          http://impala‑server‑hostname:25000/
      in a browser. (For secure clusters, use the prefix
        https:// instead of http://.) 
      Because each Impala node produces its own set of debug information, you
      should choose a specific node that you want to investigate an issue on. 
Main Page

 The main impalad Web UI page at / lists
            the following information about the impalad: 

 The version of the impalad daemon  The
                  Version section also contains other information, such
                as when Impala was built and what build flags were used. 

 Process start time 
 Hardware information 
 OS information 
 Process information 
 CGroup information 


Admission Controller Page

 The Admission Controller
impalad debug Web UI is at
              /admission page under the main
              impalad Web UI. 
 Use the /admission page to troubleshoot
            queued queries and the admission control. 
 The admission page provides the following
            information about each resource pool to which queries have been
            submitted at least once: 

 Time since the statestored received the last
              update 
 A warning if this impalad is considered
              disconnected from the statestored and thus the
              information on this page could be stale. 
 Pool configuration 
 Queued queries submitted to this coordinator, in the order of
              submission 
 Running queries submitted to this coordinator 
 Pool stats 
 Average of time in queue: An exponential moving average
                  which represents the average time in queue over the last 10 to
                  12 queries. If a query is admitted immediately, the wait time
                  of 0 is used in calculating this average wait time. 


 Histogram of the distribution of peak memory used by queries
              admitted to the pool  Use the histogram to figure out settings
                for the minimum and maximum query MEM_LIMIT
                ranges for this pool. 
 The histogram displays data for all queries admitted to the
                pool, including the queries that finished, got canceled, or encountered
                an error. 


 Click on the pool name to only display information relevant to
            that pool. You can then refresh the debug page to see only the
            information for that specific pool. 
 Click Reset informational stats for all pools to reset the
            stats that keep track of historical data, such as Totals
            stats, Time in queue (exponential moving average), and the
            histogram. 
 The above information is also available as a JSON object from the
            following HTTP endpoint:
            http://impala-server-hostname:port/admission?json


Known Backends Page

 The Known backends page of the impalad
            debug Web UI is at /backends under the main
              impalad Web UI. 
 This page lists the following info for each of the
              impalad nodes in the cluster. Because each
              impalad daemon knows about every other
              impalad daemon through the StateStore, this
            information should be the same regardless of which node you select. 

 Address of the node: Host name and port 
 KRPC address: The KRPC address of the impalad.
              Use this address when you issue the SHUTDOWN
              command for this impalad. 
 Whether acting as a coordinator 
 Whether acting as an executor 
 Quiescing status: Specify whether the graceful shutdown process
              has been initiated on this impalad. 
 Memory limit for admission: The amount of memory that can be
              admitted to this backend by the admission controller. 
 Memory reserved: The amount of memory reserved by queries that
              are active, either currently executing or finished but not yet
              closed, on this backend.  The memory reserved for a query that
                is currently executing is its memory limit, if set. Otherwise,
                if the query has no limit or if the query finished executing,
                the current consumption is used. 

 Memory of the queries admitted to this coordinator: The memory
              submitted to this particular host by the queries admitted by this
              coordinator. 



Catalog Page

 The Catalog page of the impalad debug Web
            UI is at /catalog under the main impalad Web
            UI. 
 This page displays a list of databases and associated tables
            recognized by this instance of impalad. You can
            use this page to locate which database a table is in, check the
            exact spelling of a database or table name, look for identical table
            names in multiple databases. The primary debugging use case would be
            to check if an impalad instance has knowledge of a
            particular table that someone expects to be in a particular
            database. 


Hadoop Configuration

 The Hadoop Configuration page of the
              impalad debug Web UI is at /hadoop-varz
            under the main impalad Web UI. 
 This page displays the Hadoop common configurations that Impala is
            running with. 


JMX

 The JMX page of the impalad debug Web UI
            is at /jmx under the main impalad Web UI. 
 This page displays monitoring information about various JVM
            subsystems, such as memory pools, thread management, runtime. etc.
          


Java Log Level

 The Change log level page of the impalad
            debug Web UI is at /log_level under the main
              impalad Web UI. 
 This page displays the current Java and backend log levels, and it
            allows you to change the log levels dynamically without having to
            restart the impalad. 


Logs Page

 The INFO logs page of the impalad debug
            Web UI is at /logs under the main impalad
            Web UI. 
 This page shows the last portion of the
              impalad.INFO log file, including the info,
            warning, and error logs for the impalad. You can
            see the details of the most recent operations, whether the
            operations succeeded or encountered errors. This page provides one
            central place for the log files and saves you from looking around
            the filesystem for the log files, which could be in different
            locations on clusters that use cluster management software. 


Memz Page

 The Memory Usage page of the impalad debug
            Web UI is at /memz under the main impalad
            Web UI. 
 This page displays the summary and detailed information about
            memory usage by the impalad. 


Metrics Page

 The Metrics page of the impalad debug Web
            UI is at /metrics under the main impalad Web
            UI. 
 This page displays the current set of metrics, counters and flags
            representing various aspects of impalad internal
            operations. 

Queries Page

 The Queries page of the impalad debug Web
            UI is at /queries under the main impalad Web
            UI. 
 This page lists: 

 Currently running queries 
 Queries that have completed their execution, but have not been
              closed yet 
 Completed queries whose details still reside in memory 

 The queries are listed in reverse chronological order, with the
            most recent at the top. You can control the amount of memory devoted
            to completed queries by specifying the
              -‑-‑query_log_size startup option for
              impalad. 
 This page provides: 
 How many SQL statements are failing (State
                value of EXCEPTION) 
 How large the result sets are (# rows
                  fetched) 
 How long each statement took (Start Time and
                  End Time) 


 Click the Details link for a query to
            display the detailed performance characteristics of that query, such
            as the profile output.
On the query detail page, in the Profile
            tab, you have options to export the query profile output to the
            Thrift, text, or Json format.
 The Queries page also includes the Query Locations
            section that lists the number of running queries with fragments on
            this host. 

RPC Services Page

 The RPC durations page of the impalad
            debug Web UI is at /rpcz under the main
              impalad Web UI. 
 This page displays information, such as the duration, about the
            RPC communications of this impalad with other
            Impala daemons. 

Sessions Page

 The Sessions page of the impalad debug Web
            UI is at /session under the main impalad Web
            UI. 
 This page displays information about the sessions currently
            connected to this impalad instance. For example,
            sessions could include connections from the
              impala-shell command, JDBC or ODBC applications,
            or the Impala Query UI in the Hue web interface. 

Threadz Page

 The Threads page of the impalad debug Web
            UI is at /threadz under the main impalad Web
            UI. 
 This page displays information about the threads used by this
            instance of impalad, and it shows which categories
            they are grouped into. Making use of this information requires
            substantial knowledge about Impala internals. 

Varz Page
 The Varz page of the impalad debug Web UI
          is at /varz under the main impalad Web UI.
            This page shows the configuration settings in effect when this
            instance of impalad communicates with other Hadoop
            components such as HDFS and YARN. These settings are collected from
            a set of configuration files.  The bottom of this page also
            lists all the command-line settings in effect for this instance of
              impalad.
Prometheus Metrics Page

At /metrics_prometheus, under the main
              impalad Web UI, the metrics are generated in
            Prometheus exposition format that Prometheus can consume for event
            monitoring and alerting. 
The /metrics_prometheus is not shown in the Web UI list of
            pages.


