Embedded Container Service (ECS) checklistCloudera Docs
Embedded Container Service (ECS) checklist
Use this checklist to ensure that your Embedded Container Service (ECS) is configured and
        ready for installing CDP Private Cloud Data Services.
Table 1. Embedded Container Service (ECS) checklist to install CDP Private Cloud Data Services

Item
Summary
Documentation
Notes



DNS configuration
Ensure that you have set up the DNS and
              Reverse DNS between Embedded Container Service
                (ECS) hosts and CDP Private Cloud Base. This is required
              for obtaining Kerberos ticket-granting tickets.
Certificate management and
                  DNS

A wildcard DNS entry is required for resolving the ingress
                            route for applications. The ingress route is usually behind a load
                            balancer. 


Check that ECS Ingress can be resolved in
                DNS.
Ensure that Embedded
                Container Service (ECS) application hostnames can be
              accessed from outside the cluster. You can test
                this by creating an ingress point on the target cluster.

The
                cluster generates multiple hosts and host-based routing is used
                in the cluster in order to route it to the right service. You
                must decide on a domain for the services which Cloudera Manager,
                by default points to one of the hostnames on the cluster.
                However, during the installation, you should check the default
                domain and override the default domain (only if necessary) with
                what you plan to use as the domain. The default domain must have
                a wildcard DNS entry. For example,
                  *.apps.myhostname.com.

Perform a DNS query on the ingress
                  point, to check if you can access the hostnames outside
                the cluster.



Clock time from NTP source
Ensure that the NTP clock in CDP
              Private Cloud Base is in sync with the time configured in the Embedded Container Service (ECS) cluster.
              This is an important step if your setup does not have access to
              the Internet. 
Enable an NTP Service

Installing CDP Private Cloud Data
                Services   (ECS)




Parent topic: Installation using the Embedded Container Service (ECS)