How to use the CDP Private Cloud Data Services sizing spreadsheetCloudera Docs
How to use the CDP Private Cloud Data Services sizing spreadsheet 
You can use the sizing spreadsheet to model the hardware
    requirements for a CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment. 
Overview
The CDP Private Cloud Data Services Sizing spreadsheet is a
        spreadsheet that you can use to model the quantity and specifications
        for worker hosts required in a CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        deployment. 
This spreadsheet is intended to use information about
        workloads you are planning to run and hardware specifications for worker
        nodes to arrive at an approximate number of worker nodes required for
        your deployment. Due to the complexity of estimating workloads, Cloudera
        recommends you review any sizing or purchasing decisions with Cloudera
        Professional Services before committing to those decisions. 

How to access the spreadsheet
You can access the spreadsheet here:  CDP Private Cloud Data Services Sizing. The file is in
        Microsoft Excel format. You can open the file in Excel, or upload it to
        Google Sheets. 
There are three tabs in the spreadsheet. You will make your
        inputs only on the Worker Node Totals tab. Do not modify the
        following tabs (these tabs contain data used to calculate values in the
        spreadsheet and should not be modified):


Component Lookup


K8s Resources


importantDo not modify any cells except for the ones
        indicated below. Modifying the formulas in other cells will result in
        inaccurate calculations.

Workload inputs
The spreadsheet calculates the total amount vcores, RAM, and storage required
        based on information you enter about the combined workloads you intend to deploy. Then based
        on the hardware specifications entered, calculates the number of worker nodes required,
        which is displayed in cell E24. 
The following sections describe values you must enter into
        the spreadsheet. Values are required for each Data Service you intend to
        deploy, and values to enter for the hardware specifications for your
        worker nodes. 

Control plane monitoring 


Label
Cell
Description



CP Monitoring
B3
Increment this number by one for each environment.



Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) 
If you will deploy CDW, on the Worker Node Totals tab,
        enter the following information:


Label 
Cell
Description



CDW Data Catalog (min 1 per env)
B5
Enter the number of Data Catalogs you will need
                in your deployment. You must have at least one Data Catalog.
              


CDW LLAP warehouses
B6
Enter the number of LLAP warehouses you will need
                for each Virtual Warehouse in your deployment. 


-- LLAP Executors 
B7
Enter the total number of LLAP Executors you will
                need in your deployment. 


CDW Impala warehouses
B8
Enter the number of CDW Impala warehouses for
                each Virtual Warehouse you will need in your deployment.
              


-- Impala Coordinators (2 x for HA)
B9
Enter the number of Impala Warehouses you will
                need in your deployment. If you have enabled high availability,
                enter twice the number of Warehouses. 


-- Impala Executors
B10
Enter the number of Impala Executors you will
                need in your deployment. 


CDW Cache

B11

Enter the amount of CDW Cache space for each
                coordinator and executor (Default 600)


Data Viz - small instances
B12
Enter the size selected when creating a Data
                Visualization instance. 


Data Viz - medium instances
B13


Data Viz - large instances
B14


For more information about sizing Cloudera Data Warehouse
        deployments, see:
(OCP) CDE hardware requirements. 
(ECS) Additional resource requirements for Cloudera Data Engineering


Cloudera Machine Learning (CML)
Sizing for a CML deployment depends on the number of
        concurrent jobs you expect to run and the number of Workspaces you
        provision. 


Label 
Cell
Description



CML Workspace (min of 1 )
B16
Enter the number of workspaces you need in your
                deployment. 


-- CML Small concurrent sessions
B17
Enter the number of concurrent small-sized
                sessions you intend to run. 


-- CML Average concurrent sessions
B18
Enter the number of concurrent average-sized
                sessions you intend to run. 


For more information about sizing the Cloudera Data
        Engineering service, see the following topics: 

Additional resource requirements for
            Cloudera Machine Learning. 
(OCP) Cloudera Machine Learning
              requirements
(ECS) Cloudera Machine Learning requirements


Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)


Label 
Cell
Description



CDE Service (min/max 1 per cluster)
B20
Enter the number of CDE clusters you will need in
                your deployment. 


CDE Virtual Cluster
B21
Enter the number of CDE Virtual Clusters you will
                need in your deployment. 


-- CDE Small concurrent jobs
B22
Enter the number of concurrent small-sized jobs
                you intend to run.


-- CDE Average concurrent jobs
B23
Enter the number of concurrent average-sized jobs
                you intend to run.


For more information about sizing the Cloudera Data
        Engineering service, see Additional resource requirements for
          Cloudera Data Engineering.

Worker node hardware specifications
Based on the inputs you supplied for your workloads, the
        spreadsheet totals the number of vcores, RAM, and storage required for
        the cluster in cells C20-C26. Then, based on the worker node hardware
        specifications you enter in cells B26-B29, divides the totals for
        vcores, RAM and storage by each of the worker node specifications to
        arrive at the required number of nodes for vcores, RAM and storage shown
        in cells D5-D29. The final number, in cell E27 chooses the higher value
        of these cells. 
You may notice that the calculated values in cells D26 and
        D27 are different. This indicates that some nodes are oversubscribed for
        RAM or vcores. Adjust the hardware specifications for CPU and RAM until
        the two cells are closer together in value. Changing these values may
        also change the calculated number of worker nodes. 


Label 
Cell
Description



CPU recommend 32+ cores (64vcores)
B27
Enter the number of vcores for each worker node.
              


RAM (GB) recommend 384GB RAM
B28
Enter the amount of RAM, in gigabytes, for each
                worker node.


Disk (GB) Block (OCP CSI block, ECS
                Longhorn)
B29

Enter the number of gigabytes Block required for:
 - OpenShift Container Platform: CSI block
 - Embedded Container Service: ECS Longhorn



Disk (GB) Fast Cache for CDW (nvme,ssd)
B30
Enter the number of gigabytes of Fast Cache used
                in Cloudera Data Warehouse.


CP Block Overhead per host (300 to 1024)
B31
Enter the Control Plane block overhead


NFS (GB) (choose 1 from below)
B33
Enter required storage in either cell B34 or cell B35


-- Embedded nfs - (subtract from Block provider)
                non-prod
B34
Enter the number of gigabytes storage for an
                embedded NFS.


-- External nfs
B35
Enter the number of gigabytes of storage for an
                External NFS.


ECS Master Node requires 1 for non HA - 3 for HAIf
                  you are using the Embedded Container Service, you will also need to provision a
                  host for the ECS Master Node (a node running the ECS Server component). The
                  values described here contain Cloudera’s recommendations for specifications for
                  the ECS Master node. 
B38

Minimum:
16 vcores
Recommended: 
32 vcores



B39

Minimum:
32 GB RAM
Recommended: 
64 GB RAM



B40

Minimum: 300 GB HDD (This amount is adequate for a proof-of-concept cluster.) 
Recommended: 1 TB HDD 





Parent topic: CDP Private Cloud Data Services Hardware Requirements