Docker repository accessCloudera Docs
Docker repository access
You must ensure that the cluster has access to the Docker Container
    Repository in order to retrieve the container images for deployment. 
There are several types of Docker Repositories you can use:

Embedded Repository
During installation, a Docker daemon is provisioned to act as the
          Repository. Passwords and certificates are auto generated. No
          additional set up is needed. Images are copied to the repository
          during installation. During upgrades, only the new and changed images
          are copied. Copying images generally takes one to two hours. 
It is important to note that the Embedded Repository can be a single
          point of failure. If the node that runs the Docker Repository fails or
          becomes unavailable, some cluster functionalities might become
          unavailable. Moving the Docker Repository to another node is a complex
          process and will require engaging Cloudera Professional Services.
        
Cloudera Repository
Using the Cloudera Repository requires that the cluster have
          internet connectivity to the Cloudera public repository. Using the
          Cloudera Repository is the fastest option. 
The Cloudera-hosted Docker Repository option may increase the time
          required to deploy or start the services in the cluster. Cloudera
          generates Docker Repository credentials that are identical to your
          paywall credentials. Refer to your welcome letter for the credentials
          or use the credential generator on cloudera.com to generate credentials from your license key. 
This option is best suited for proof-of-concept, non-production
          deployments or deployments that do not have security requirements that
          disallow internet access. 
Custom Repository 
A Custom Repository is a repository that you manage in your
          environment and can be Enterprise grade and highly available. 
During installation and upgrade, a custom script is generated that
          you use to copy the images. Copying images can take 4 - 5 hours. 
Only TLS-enabled custom Docker Registry is supported. Ensure that
          you use a TLS certificate to secure the custom Docker Registry. The
          TLS certificate can be self-signed, or signed by a private or public
          trusted Certificate Authority (CA).important When using
            an Embedded Container Service cluster, passwords must not contain
            the $ character.



Parent topic: CDP Private Cloud Data Services Hardware Requirements