Adding a CDP Private Cloud Data Services clusterCloudera Docs
Adding a CDP Private Cloud Data Services cluster
Using Cloudera Manager 7.10.1, you can either install Private Cloud Data Services by
    downloading the repository from the Internet, or you can do an air gap installation if Cloudera
    Manager does not have access to the Internet. 
Before you begin:

Ensure you have Cloudera Manager 7.10.1 installed and you have the entitlements to the CDP Private Cloud Data Services product.
Only TLS 1.2 is supported for authentication with Active Directory/LDAP. You require TLS 1.2 to authenticate the CDP control plane with your LDAP directory service like Active Directory.
When the system logs you out after some period of inactivity and the Add
          Cluster wizard is not yet finished, you must either restart Cloudera Manager
        or from the Home screen > select Add Cluster >
        choose CDP Private Cloud Base cluster > Click
          Continue, and then just click Cancel to
        leave the wizard.
The Kubeconfig file is available in /etc/rancher/rke2/rke2.yaml
If the installer fails, do not cancel the installation. For more
        information, see Manually
          uninstalling ECS from a cluster.
Do not use any antivirus or other security tools on the ECS nodes. These third-party tools
        may cause issues with ECS functionality.  

noteWhile installing the ECS cluster using the Cloudera Manager UI, do not provide the
      unsupported characters in the app-domain. The supported characters are:
Lower case alphanumeric characters
'-' or '.'
It must start and end with an alphanumeric character. For example, 'example.com', and
          regex used for validation is '[a-z0-9]([-a-z0-9][a-z0-9])?(\.[a-z0-9]([-a-
          z0-9][a-z0-9])?)*')


Installing CDP Private Cloud Data Services using ECSFollow the steps in this topic to install CDP Private Cloud Data Services with the Embedded Container Service         (ECS).ECS Server High AvailabilityIf you want to enable ECS Server for High Availability after installing ECS, then you   must proceed with this section. If you do not want to enable ECS HA, you can safely ignore this   section. You must review the note section and unserstand the ECS Server scenarios that are   supported before you proceed to the next section.Parent topic: Installation using the Embedded Container Service (ECS)