







































































Evolve 2023 Bangkok  | In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Overview
Agenda
Sponsors
Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION
EVERYWHERE









 



 




May 16, 2023 | 9 AM - 2 PM
 
Siam Kempinski Bangkok
(Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders–and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 



















Agenda










8:30 AM
Registration













9:00 AM


Welcome







Prapoj Lappayavijit, Country Manager, Thailand, Cloudera
















9:10 AM


Cloudera Vision







Lim Wee Tee, GVP - Growth & Emerging Markets, Cloudera
















9:30 AM


Building a successful data platform for business transformation







Tul Roteseree, EVP, Head of Data and Analytics Division, Bank of Ayudhya PCL















10:10 AM
Morning Break and Networking













10:30 AM


Delivering business outcomes with a modern data architecture







Daniel Hand, APAC CTO, Cloudera
















11:00 AM


Accelerate your data analytics platform with Apache Iceberg







Poom Jantarachart, Senior Solutions Consultant, Cloudera
 
















11:20 AM


Faster and actionable insights with data-in-motion







Suresh Eswarawaka, Sales Specialist, Data-in-motion, Cloudera
















11:50 PM


Cloudera Data-in-Motion to accelerate your actions







Orachai Tassanamethin, Solution Advisory, dData
















12:10 PM


Closing







Prapoj Lappayavijit, Country Manager, Thailand, Cloudera















12:20 PM
Lunch












2:00 PM
Event ends













 















Speakers









Lim Wee Tee
RSD - Growth & Emerging Markets, Cloudera








Tul Roteseree
EVP, Head of Data and Analytics Division, Bank of Ayudhya PCL








Daniel Hand
APAC CTO, Cloudera









 










Co-hosts
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 



Platinum Partners




















 



 











 










Register now









Middle Name




First Name







Last Name







Job Title







Business Email







Company







Phone








Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy. You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here.







Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.







By checking this box, I acknowledge that I will receive communication from IBM and Cloudera. I can unsubscribe at any time.






IBM may use my contact data to keep me informed of products, services and offerings



By Email







By Telephone







None









You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here. You may unsubscribe from receiving marketing emails by clicking the unsubscribe link in each such email. By submitting this form, I acknowledge that I have read and understand the IBM Privacy Statement here. I understand that IBM may take group photos or perform live streaming during the event for promotional purposes.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thank you for registering to Evolve 23 Bangkok.


You will receive a confirmation email shortly, and we look forward to seeing you at the event!














                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



