







































































Evolve 2023 Dubai  |  In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Overview
Agenda
Speakers
Partners
Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION
EVERYWHERE









 



 




May 18, 2023 | 9 AM - 5:30 PM
 
Museum of the Future, Dubai
Sheikh Zayed Road, Trade Center (Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders–and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 













Why attend







 
















Gain access to peer networks, industry professionals, and technical innovators.
 Evolve 2023 is an intimate, one-day experience with curated sessions from a variety of voices and private peer-to-peer sessions designed to give you exclusive access to best-in-class approaches and ideas.















Get inspired by how you can bring the future of data into your business today.
Hear from companies that successfully transformed their data strategy to get the most out of their analytics–and learn how your business can do the same.















Three interconnected tracks tailored to your data needs.

Mix and match sessions depending on your business’s data needs, and get exclusive access to best-in-class approaches and ideas.










 























Be inspired by innovation

Get inspired at Evolve 2023, the conference for data and analytics leaders, and learn how YOU can bring the future of data into your business today.
 
Choose sessions from any of our three tracks:











 










TRACK ONE - LOB/IT
Transformation
Hear stories of transformation from business processes to entire industries.









TRACK TWO - IT
Modern Architectures
Learn about creative data solutions that drive measurable outcomes.









TRACK THREE - TECHNICAL
Discovery Labs
Experience ‘the art of the possible’ with Cloudera CDP and Cloudera Partner solutions.









 


















 

























Agenda










9:00
Registrations and Breakfast








Morning Plenary











9:45


Master of Ceremony







Start off with some laughter from Internationally renowned entertainment personality, Wonho Chung.
 
















9:55


Opening Welcome







Welcome to Evolve!
Hear a lively local introduction to Evolve.
Ahmad Shakora, Group Vice President, Emerging Markets
 
















10:05


Analyst Keynote: Data Architectures Do Not Evolve Alone – It Takes an Ecosystem







The challenges of an evolving set of application systems and exploding data volumes require partnerships among stakeholders, providers and platforms. It takes more than a village – it takes an ecosystem – to move aggressively and cost-effectively into the future without leaving high-performance investments behind. This introductory keynote will discuss:

Integrating legacy and new systems across multicloud and on-premises platforms
Leveraging open standards to provide performance, observability and governance in a complex software landscape
Capturing the innovations of the open source community to evolve to a modern data stack 

Merv Adrian, Founder and principal analyst at IT Market Strategy (former Gartner VP)
Merv Adrian, founder and principal analyst at IT Market Strategy, is a trusted advisor to enterprises and investors, as well as a frequent conference speaker and prolific researcher, editor and writer on data and IT issues. He is a former Research Vice President of Gartner, Senior Vice President of Forrester Research and Research Manager at Giga Information Group, specializing in data management. Mr. Adrian began his career at the Federal Reserve Bank and was an independent programmer and consultant before moving into the software industry as a technical journal editor and strategic marketer with Information Builders and Sybase before becoming an analyst in 1997.
















10:20


Partner Panel: Building Next-Generation Data Architectures







Modern architectures must meet a variety of complex requirements across all platforms -- from business agility to resiliency, security, scalability and the new demands of AI.  In this lively panel, Merv Adrian moderates a visionary discussion between IBM, AWS and Cloudera. What guidance do these tech leaders have for data teams navigating a rapidly changing technology landscape and next-gen business requirements? How do they recommend that enterprises "future-proof" architectures? What best practices are emerging from the world's most innovative enterprises?
Moderator: Merv Adrian
Panelists: 

AWS: Samer Mahmoud, Head of MENA-PS SA
Cloudera: Sudhir Menon, Chief Product Officer
IBM: Mostafa Zafer, Vice President, IBM Data&AI and Automation, IBM Technology MEA

















10:40


Executive Keynote: The Vision for Evolve







The Vision for Evolve, the Vision for the Future
Get inspired with timely executive perspective for your data and AI strategy today – and for the future. Hear how enterprise data and IT leaders deliver game-changing outcomes with Cloudera, AWS, IBM, Intel and our partner ecosystem. Discover which technologies and best practices make the biggest impact today, see what to expect in the future and find out what’s required to deliver real value from AI.
Frank O'Dowd & Sudhir Menon, CRO & CPO
















10:55


Talk: The Impact of Modern Data Architectures







Today’s data architectures must take many forms to support changing business requirements, real-time data streams and new ML/AI use cases. Hear an executive-level summary of the most important modern data architectures and concepts: hybrid/multi-cloud, data lakehouses, data fabric and data mesh. Learn the differences, key benefits and ideal use cases. 
Luke Roquet, SVP Product Marketing, Cloudera
Luke has 25 years of experience in the technology industry across roles ranging from development, architecture, business development, sales, and marketing. He brings a passion and excitement about making enterprises wildly successful with their data technology and helping customers innovate. Luke currently drives the messaging and go-to-market strategy for Cloudera’s product portfolio — aligned tightly with product management, engineering and sales. He has held leadership roles at large enterprises such as Oracle and AWS and early-stage startups such as Hortonworks and Unravel Data.
















11:05


Customer Panel: Modernizing our Architecture







Listen to a panel of data and IT leaders talk about modernizing their architecture. Get inspired with best practices, success stories and real-world advice. 
Moderated by Luke Roquet, SVP Product Marketing, Cloudera
Panelists:

Elrashid Ibrahim - Director Data Management and Mediation solution & design, du
Hari Baskar, Chief Data & Analytics Officer, SAB
Ibrahim Parlak, Head of Cloud Data Platform, Garanti BBVA

 
















11:25


Customer Fireside Chat







Hear how a well-known enterprise uses Cloudera today – and their plans for expanding to new capabilities and use cases. Find out how they used Cloudera, and other technologies and best practices, to deliver impressive results. Learn the most important factors for their success.
Nicholas Grim, Vice President – Cloud, Data and Realtime, Emirates NBD
Karim Azar, Regional Vice President, Middle East & Turkey, Cloudera
















11:40


Customer Fireside Chat







Hear how a well-known enterprise uses Cloudera today – and their plans for expanding to new capabilities and use cases. Find out how they used Cloudera, and other technologies and best practices, to deliver impressive results. Learn the most important factors for their success.
Naveed Memon, Vice President Enterprise Data & Analytics Solutions, Emirates
Paul MacKay, Cloud Director, Cloudera















12:30
Lunch & Partner Expo Open








Transformation Track











14:00


The Future of Analytics: Trends and Technologies Driving Innovation







The rise of big data has created unprecedented opportunities for businesses to gain insights and drive growth in the data era. In this session, we will explore strategies for unlocking the full potential of big data, including overcoming challenges around scalability, data collection, management, and governance. We will discuss the importance of building a scalable architecture, and the role of technology in driving data initiatives. Additionally, we will explore the latest trends in data analytics, including the rise of artificial intelligence and machine learning, and their potential to transform the way we do business. Attendees will gain a deeper understanding of how to leverage technology & big data to drive business impact.
Michael Heuer, System Engineer Manager, Dell
















14:40


Unlocking Customer Value: Success Stories







The break out session with Atta Ullah Shah will highlight the significance of the value of data, key implementations done using big data, what value it generated for customers, and how big data plays its role for organizations opting the path of Data Transformation Journey, focusing on insights from real-world customer success stories.
Atta Ullah Shah, Head of Data Analytics – MEA, Techvista
















15:05


Enabling Digital Transformation for STC - A case study by Solutions and Cloudera







How Solutions & Cloudera helped STC transform and become a data driven organization maximizing the benefits from its data assists.
Ahmed AlKebsi, Executive Head, Applications Development & Integration, Solutions by STC
















15:45


Maximizing the efficiency in transportation with Streaming Analytics







In this real use case, Cloudera CDP platform enables the public transportation service with real time insights, meeting and anticipating the passengers flow, using Spark, NiFi and Kafka.
By collecting information in real time from the ticketing systems and IoT devices in trains, the CDP platform offers unparalleled scalability to bring a better passenger experience with Real time information and an optimized use of a public transportation service.
Sergio Rodríguez de Guzmán Martínez, Chief Technical Officer, PUE











Modern Data Architecture Track











14:00


Transforming Business with Innovative Architecture and Technology Solutions: A Focus on hybrid architecture, Data, and IoT (with Magnoos & MDS TSS)







This topic explores how innovative architecture and technology solutions are transforming businesses through a focus on hybrid architecture, data, and IoT. By leveraging these technologies, businesses can streamline operations, improve customer experiences, and drive growth in a competitive marketplace. Hybrid architecture refers to the combination of different technology platforms and deployment models, while IoT involves the interconnectivity of devices and sensors to gather and analyze data. Through these solutions, businesses can better understand their customers and make data-driven decisions to optimize their operations.
Mario Haddad, Commercial Director, Magnoos
















14:25


Boost Your Enterprise Data Strategy with a Fast, Engineered and Streamlined Journey to Cloud (with AWS, Accenture, Cloudera)







The migration of big and mission-critical data sets is not trivial and can’t usually happen in a snap of fingers. Quite often, long replatforming and expensive rearchitect operations are involved in the process. 
Cloudera, Accenture and AWS have partnered to put together a value proposition that can allow enterprises to quickly migrate to a Data Platform as a Service on AWS, enabling modern data lakehouses and leveraging best-of-breed E2E data services in combination with AWS cloud-native services. Join us on this journey to the cloud at the speed of light to unleash the power of your data!

Hussein Ragy, Managing Director, Accenture
Alvin Heib, Head of Partners and Alliance, Cloudera

















15:05


A Success Story: The Legos of Modern Data Architecture (with Evalueserve)







Join us in dissecting SAB's architecture modernization story and the future of data and AI in banking with Hari Baskar, Head of Data Management at SAB.
The key to success at the bank has been its "Legos" approach to transformation. It has implemented a modular platform that is scalable and future-ready by joining new, cutting-edge components with its legacy Lego blocks. The result? An enterprise-wide system that accelerates time to insights and drives better, faster decision-making.

Rohan Golwalkar, Director of Sales, Evalueserve
Varun Sawhney, AVP - Solutions Architect; Data & Analytics, Evalueserve

















15:30


Enabling a Journey to the Sovereign Cloud for Highly Regulated Markets (with Red Hat, Accenture, Cloudera)







Cloud-based "as a service" models are a key driver of digital innovation, but for highly-regulated industries like finance and healthcare, strict compliance requirements present challenges.  How can organizations navigate a complex cloud landscape while complying with many regulations?
Join Cloudera, Red Hat and Accenture to:

Discover how regulated enterprises can use the cloud for data and analytics, including exchanging data between industry peers.

Get an introduction to the “Sovereign Cloud Ready Solution” for data platforms, that works in the most private enclaves. 



See how the solution has helped other enterprises navigate complex compliance requirements while unlocking the potential of cloud innovation.

Mohamad Baalbaki, EMEA ISV BDM - META, Red Hat
Hussein Ragy, Managing Director, Accenture












Discovery Labs











14:00


Cloudera Data Platform







See a demo of the latest Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) – including SDX data governance, hybrid workload portability and integrated data services. Discover how quickly you can move new use cases from evaluation to production.
















14:25


Machine Learning & AI







Get a firsthand look at how CDP Machine Learning helps data science teams be more productive and get AI applications off the ground. See how CDP helps organizations run analytics on all data - structured and unstructured - at massive scale.
















15:05


Data in Motion & Streaming Analytics







See how Cloudera DataFlow makes it easy to connect to any data source anywhere, process, and deliver to any destination through a cloud-native service powered by Apache NiFi.















15:35
Lakehouse & Iceberg








Afternoon Plenary










16:30
Award Ceremony Data Impact Awards












16:50
Raffle Prize












17:15
Closing remarks













 















Speakers









Wonho Chung
Entertainment Personality








Merv Adrian
Founder and Principal Analyst at IT Market Strategy (former Gartner)








Naveed Memon
Vice President Enterprise Data & Analytics Solutions, Emirates








Nicholas Grimm
Vice President – Cloud, Data and Realtime, Emirates NBD








Elrashid Ibrahim
Director Data Management and Mediation solution & design, du








Hari Baskar
Chief Data & Analytics Officer, SAB








Ibrahim Parlak
Head of Cloud Data Platform, Garanti BBVA








Ahmad Shakora
Group Vice President, Emerging Markets, Cloudera








Frank O’Dowd
Chief Revenue Officer, Cloudera








Sudhir Menon
Chief Product Officer, Cloudera








Luke Roquet
Senior Vice President, Product Marketing, Cloudera








Paul Mackay
Cloud Director, Cloudera








Brendan Moran
Regional Vice President - Solutions Engineering, Cloudera








Mostafa Zafer
Vice President, Data & AI and Automation, IBM








Samer Mahmoud
Head of MENA-PS SA, AWS








Agnes Psathas
Vice President, Field Marketing, Cloudera








Hannah Smalltree
Sr Director, Integrated Marketing and Customer Advocacy, Cloudera








Karim Azar
Regional Vice President, Middle East & Turkey, Cloudera








Zayed Abualhaj
Regional Vice President, Saudi Arabia & Middle East, Cloudera








Simon Bromfield
Regional Vice President, Africa, Cloudera








Michael Heuer
Systems Engineer Manager, CEEMETA, Dell








Mohamad Baalbaki
EMEA ISV BDM - META, Red Hat








Hussein Ragy
Managing Director, Accenture








Ahmed AlKebsi
Executive Head, Applications Development & Integration, Solutions by STC








Atta Ullah Shah
Head of Data Analytics – MEA, Techvista Systems








Mario Haddad
Commercial Director, Magnoos








Rohan Golwalkar
Client Director, MEA, Data and Analytics, Evalueserve








Varun Sawhney
Director, Data Analytics, Middle East, Asia, and India, Evalueserve








Sergio Rodríguez de Guzmán Martínez
Cheif Technical Officer, PUE








Tariq Salameh
Solutions Engineer Manager, Emerging Markets, Cloudera








Alvin Heib
Head of Partners and Alliance, EMEA, Cloudera








Ahmed Tayeh
Partner Sales Account Manager, Emerging Markets, Cloudera








Mike Nawfal
Sr. Field Marketing Manager, Emerging Markets, Cloudera









 










Co-hosts
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 



Platinum Partners
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 















 



 











 



Gold Partners














 



 








 



 








 



 







 











 



 








 



 











 



Silver Partners














 



 








 



 








 



 







 










Register now









Middle Name




First Name







Last Name







Job Title







Business Email







Company







Phone








Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy. You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here.







Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.







By checking this box, I acknowledge that I will receive communication from IBM and Cloudera. I can unsubscribe at any time.






IBM may use my contact data to keep me informed of products, services and offerings



By Email







By Telephone







None









You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here. You may unsubscribe from receiving marketing emails by clicking the unsubscribe link in each such email. By submitting this form, I acknowledge that I have read and understand the IBM Privacy Statement here. I understand that IBM may take group photos or perform live streaming during the event for promotional purposes.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thank you for registering to Evolve 23 Dubai.

You will receive a confirmation email in the upcoming days. If you have any question please email emea-marketing@cloudera.com indicating the event city.

We look forward to seeing you soon!














                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



