







































































Evolve 2023 Jakarta| In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Overview
Agenda
Sponsors
Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION
EVERYWHERE









 



 




August 10, 2023 | 9 AM - 2 PM (WIB)

 
Fairmont Jakarta
(Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders–and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 















Speakers









Dr. Indrawan Nugroho
Corporate Innovation Consultant, Managing Director at CIAS








Handika Hakim
Vice President Business Analytics, Bank Negara Indonesia








Adhitya Bhaswara
VP Data Science Bank Central Asia








Nikhil Madan
General Manager & Area Director (India & South East Asia) - Data Lake & Object Storage Dell EMC








Lalitia Apsari
Co-Founder of KAIRI








Bramantyo Danur Jati
Assistant Vice President, Bank Mandiri








Chandra Aprely Putra
Head of Business Intelligence, PT Protelindo








Daniel Hand
APAC CTO, Cloudera








Erwin Sukiato
Country Manager, Indonesia Cloudera








Joe Rodriguez
Managing Director, Financial Services, Cloudera









 



















Agenda










8:30 AM
Registration












9:00 AM
Welcome













9:10 AM


Cloudera Vision







Erwin Sukiato, Country Manager, Cloudera Indonesia
















9:30 AM


Guest Speaker







Dr. Indrawan Nugroho, Corporate Innovation Consultant, Managing Director at CIAS
















10:00 AM


Panel Discussion : Industry Transformation with Modern Data Architecture in Banking 







Panellists:
Handika Hakim, Vice President Business Analytics, Bank Negara Indonesia
Bramantyo Danur Jati, Assistant Vice President, Enterprise Data Analytics, Bank Mandiri
Adhitya Bhaswara, VP Data Science , Bank Central Asia
 
Moderator
Dr. Indrawan Nugroho, Corporate Innovation Consultant | CEO & Co-founder at CIAS
















10:40 AM


Beyond Hybrid: The Future of Hybrid Driven by AI







Daniel Hand, APAC CTO, Cloudera
 















11:10 AM
Morning Break and Showcase













11:30 AM


Data and AI: Redefining  the Art of the Possible for Financial Services







Joe Rodriguez, Managing Director, Financial Services, Cloudera
 
















12:00 PM


The Limitless Data Possibilities with the Dell & Cloudera 







Nikhil Madan, General Manager & Area Director (India & South East Asia) - Data Lake & Object Storage, Dell EMC
 
















12:30 PM


Customer Story: Industry Transformation in Telecom







Chandra Aprely Putra, Head of Business Intelligence, PT Protelindo
 
















1:00 PM


Implementation of Generative AI in Various Industries







Alva Erwin, Big Data and AI Technology Evangelist, PT Nashta Global Utama
















1:15 PM


Leveraging generativeAI for your data sovereignty







Lalitia Apsari, Co-Founder of KAIRI















1:30 PM
Lucky Draw & Closing












1:30 PM
Lunch & Showcase












2:30 PM
Event Ends













 










Co-hosts
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 



Platinum Partners




















 



 











 










Register now









Middle Name




First Name







Last Name







Job Title







Business Email







Company







Phone








Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy. You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here.







Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.







By checking this box, I acknowledge that I will receive communication from IBM and Cloudera. I can unsubscribe at any time.






IBM may use my contact data to keep me informed of products, services and offerings



By Email







By Telephone







None









You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here. You may unsubscribe from receiving marketing emails by clicking the unsubscribe link in each such email. By submitting this form, I acknowledge that I have read and understand the IBM Privacy Statement here. I understand that IBM may take group photos or perform live streaming during the event for promotional purposes.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thank you for registering to Evolve 23 Jakarta.


You will receive a confirmation email shortly, and we look forward to seeing you at the event!














                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



