







































































Evolve 2023 Kuala Lumpur  |  In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Overview
Agenda
Partners
Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION
EVERYWHERE









 



 




9 May 2023 | 09:00 to 14:00 MYT
 
Le Meridien Sentral, Kuala Lumpur
2, Jalan Stesen Sentral, Kuala Lumpur Sentral, 50470 Kuala Lumpur (Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders–and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 

















Agenda










08:30 AM
Registration













09:00 AM


Welcome







Gerard Koh, Regional Account Director, Singapore & Malaysia, Cloudera
















09:10 AM


Cloudera Vision







Lim Wee Tee, VP - Growth & Emerging Markets, Cloudera
 
















09:30 AM


Harnessing a customer 360 view for positive impact 







Dr. Chew Yew Choong, Chief Data Officer, Group Data Science & Analytics, Ambank
















10:00 AM


Delivering value with hybrid cloud







Wing Leong Ho, VP, Solutions Engineering - APAC, Cloudera















10:30 AM
Morning Break and Networking













10:50 AM


Panel discussion on modern data architecture








Panellists:

Nikhil Madan, General Manager & Area Director (India & South East Asia) - Data Lake & Object Storage, Dell EMC
Kew Yoke Ling, Executive Director, KewMann Pte Ltd

Moderated by:

Wing Leong Ho, VP, Solutions Engineering - APAC, Cloudera



















11:30 AM


Driving next-gen analytics with Apache Iceberg







Daniel Schoberle, Senior Solutions Engineer, Cloudera
 
















12:00 PM


Faster and actionable intelligence with data-in-motion







Abhishek Soni, Solutions Engineer, Cloudera
 
















12:30 PM


Closing







Adelyn Le, Account Director, Malaysia & Emerging Countries, Cloudera
 















12:40 PM
Lunch












02:00 PM
Event ends













 












Speakers









Lim Wee Tee
RSD - Growth & Emerging Markets, Cloudera








Dr. Chew Yew Choong
Chief Data Officer Group Data Science & Analytics, Ambank








Wing Leong Ho
VP, Solution Engineering - APAC, Cloudera









 










Partners






Co-hosts
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 



Platinum




















 



 











 










Register now











                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                








By checking this box, I acknowledge that I will receive communication from IBM and Cloudera. I can unsubscribe at any time.






IBM may use my contact data to keep me informed of products, services and offerings



By Email







By Telephone







None









You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here. You may unsubscribe from receiving marketing emails by clicking the unsubscribe link in each such email. By submitting this form, I acknowledge that I have read and understand the IBM Privacy Statement here. I understand that IBM may take group photos or perform live streaming during the event for promotional purposes.







 
Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy. You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here.





 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thank you for registering to Evolve 23 Kuala Lumpur.

You will receive a confirmation email shortly, and we look forward to seeing you at the event!
 



05/09/23 09:00
05/09/23 14:00
Asia/Kuala_Lumpur
Evolve 2023 Kuala Lumpur | In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere
At Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders - and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.
Le Méridien Kuala Lumpur, 2, Jalan Stesen Sentral, Kuala Lumpur Sentral, 50470 Kuala Lumpur

















                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



