







































































Evolve 2023 London  |  Onsite Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Overview
Agenda
Speakers
Partners
Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION 
EVERYWHERE









 



 




June 21st, 2023 | 9 AM - 4:30 PM
 
The Brewery, London
52 Chiswell St, London EC1Y 4SA (Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders–and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 













Why attend







 
















Gain access to peer networks, industry professionals, and technical innovators.
 Evolve 2023 is an intimate, one-day experience with curated sessions from a variety of voices and private peer-to-peer sessions designed to give you exclusive access to best-in-class approaches and ideas.















Get inspired by how you can bring the future of data into your business today.
Hear from companies that successfully transformed their data strategy to get the most out of their analytics–and learn how your business can do the same.















Three interconnected tracks tailored to your data needs.

Mix and match sessions depending on your business’s data needs, and get exclusive access to best-in-class approaches and ideas.










 























Be inspired by innovation

Get inspired at Evolve 2023, the conference for data and analytics leaders, and learn how YOU can bring the future of data into your business today.
 
Choose sessions from any of our three tracks:











 










TRACK ONE - LOB/IT
Transformation
Hear stories of transformation from business processes to entire industries.









TRACK TWO - IT
Modern Architectures
Learn about creative data solutions that drive measurable outcomes.









TRACK THREE - TECHNICAL
Discovery Labs
Experience ‘the art of the possible’ with Cloudera CDP and Cloudera Partner solutions.









 


















 

























Agenda











9:40 AM


Welcome to Evolve London








Romain Picard, SVP, EMEA Sales, Cloudera
Paul Wooding, Regional Vice President, Cloudera
Emma Rivett, Sr. Field Marketing Manager, Cloudera

Start the day inspired! We’ll review new data from a recent survey of data and IT Leaders to find out how other area enterprises are thinking about migration to and from the cloud. Meet the local team, and hear highlights of the sessions planned for the day.
 
















9:50 AM - 10:50 AM


Cloudera Keynote: Trust Your Data, Trust Your AI








Frank O’Dowd, CRO, Cloudera
Abhas, CSO, Cloudera
Luke Roquet, SVP Product Marketing, Cloudera
Paul Codding, Executive Vice President, Product Management, Cloudera

Hear from Cloudera business and technical leadership to get timely insight into new strategies for enterprise data and generative AI where you’ll learn:

The critical role of ‘trust’ in the rapid evolution of AI. Find out what global enterprises are doing now to safely prepare and leverage all types of data for an AI-driven future. And see why trustable foundational data and models are critical for building a competitive advantage from Large Language Models (LLMs) and GPT based domain solutions.
The new open data lakehouse and requirements for trustable AI. Discover how to make platforms “AI-ready” with data context, lineage tracking, governance and security. See how low-code/no-code capabilities can modernize or eliminate costly ETL processes – and hear the economic case for hybrid multi-cloud architectures. Find out what’s new in open-source innovation for AI.
How Generative AI, LLMs and other critical AI-enabling capabilities work with a first-look demo of WatsonX from IBM leveraging Cloudera Data Platform. Learn how to safely incorporate new transformer libraries, vector databases and open source LLMs. Get insight on how to assess and avoid the risks of AI experimentation.

 
















11:15 AM


Analyst Keynote: Data Ecosystems – The Basis for Innovation








Merv Adrian, Principal, IT Market Strategies (Former Gartner)

The challenges of an evolving set of applications, exploding data volume and new AI use cases  require re-thinking partnerships among enterprises, tech providers and other stakeholders. It takes more than a village – now an integrated ecosystem – to move aggressively and cost-effectively into the future without leaving high-performance investments behind.
This keynote from industry analyst Merv Adrian offers insight on:

Integrating legacy and new systems across multicloud and on-premises platforms 
Leveraging open standards to provide performance, observability and governance in a complex software landscape
Capturing the innovations of the open-source community to evolve to a modern data stack, that’s innovation and AI-ready

 
















11:40 AM 


Panel: Building Next-Gen Data Architectures








Merv Adrian, Moderator
Jason Adae, UK ISV Partner Sales Leader, AWS
Leon Butler, VP Data & AI WW Sales Leader, IBM

Modern architectures must meet a variety of complex requirements across all platforms -- from business agility to resiliency, security, scalability and the new demands of AI.  In this lively panel following his talk, Merv Adrian moderates a visionary discussion between IBM, AWS and Cloudera.

What guidance do these tech leaders have for data teams navigating a rapidly changing technology landscape and next-gen business requirements?
How do they recommend that enterprises span old and new, and "future-proof" architectures?
What best practices are emerging from the world's most innovative enterprises?

















12:05 PM


Data Mess or Data Mesh? Legal & General’s Seamless Journey to a Modern Data Architecture








Wim Stoop, Moderator, Senior Director, Hybrid Data Platform,  Cloudera
Wulstan Reeve, Head of Data Marketplace, LGIM
Matt Bannock, Head of Data Engineering, LGIM
Stuart Toll, Senior Enterprise Architect, LGIM

Hear from Legal & General Investment Management (LGIM) about their modernization journey. Find out more about the key concepts driving LGIM’s data mesh success, including “centralise the core, distribute the value” and “tech teaching tech.” Get inspired with road-tested best practices and advice.
















12:35 PM


HSBC’s Data Strategy








Mark Russell, Sales Account Manager, Cloudera
John Newman, Data Provisioning Technologies, Big Data, HSBC

Financial services giant HSBC is continuing a history of innovation with a fresh Data Strategy known as “Vision ‘27”. The goals include a major expansion to Cloud, core technology updates, and more flexibility to manage regulatory and compliance requirements. In this fireside chat, hear how the data team is navigating this complex journey, along with best practices and advice.
 
 
















12:45 PM


A Major German Automaker’s Rapid Acceleration to Data-Driven Transformation







Hear how a well-known automaker re-architected their data strategy and platform to radically accelerate digital transformation. Find out how the company uses a huge variety of data, analytics and AI to fuel innovation across their business and products. Hear how they’re already outpacing expectations and learn what’s next in their turbocharged journey.











Strategic & Technical Breakout Sessions






Personalize your experience in the afternoon, and choose from a variety of breakout sessions on strategic and technical topics. Or drop into some lightning talks that cover tech deep dives, and case studies. Sit in on a detailed technology demo, and network with your peers! 











2:00 PM - 3:50 PM


New Technology in Action: Discovery Labs Demos








2:00 PM - 2:30 PM:  Today's Cloudera Data Platform: Multi-Cloud, Workload Portability (Demo)
2:40 PM - 3:10 PM:   Get Started with Large Language Models (LLMs) Today on Cloudera (Demo)
3:20 PM - 3:50 PM: Simplify Streaming Data Pipelines and Realtime Applications (Demo)

















2:00 PM - 3:50 PM


Strategies for Multi-Cloud and Hybrid Architectures








3:20 PM - 3:50 PM: Delivering the Digital Strategy of West Midlands Police
2:30 PM - 2:45 PM: Strategies for Faster Value in a Multi-Cloud, Hybrid World
2:00 PM - 2:30 PM: Enabling a Journey to the Sovereign Cloud for Highly Regulated Markets, with Redhat, Accenture and Cloudera
2:45 PM - 3:15 PM: Boost Your Enterprise Data Strategy with a Fast, Engineered and Streamlined Journey to Cloud, with AWS and Accenture

















2:00 PM - 3:50 PM


Essential Knowledge for Trustable Data and AI








2:00 - 2:20 PM: Demystify the Economics of AI
3:15 PM - 3:30 PM: Supercharge your Generative AI Journey with AMPs
2:45 PM - 3:00 PM: The Key to Trusted AI? Start with FAIR Data

















2:00 PM - 3:50 PM


Modernizing and Maximizing Data Platforms








2:35 PM - 3:15 PM: Maximize Flexibility of the Open Lakehouse with Apache Iceberg
2:25 PM - 2:40 PM: Optimizing Performance at Massive Scale: Fireside Chat with Amdocs
2:00 PM - 2:30 PM: Your Path to Modernizing Your Data and Analytics Platform with Talend and Cloudera
3:30 PM - 3:50 PM: IBM and Cloudera Show the World Why We’re Better Together 
3:20 PM - 3:40 PM: How We Do IT at Dell: Rethink Data Management with Modern Infrastructure

















4:00 PM


Guest Speakers








Hannah Smalltree, Moderator, Senior Director, Integrated Marketing and Customer Advocacy | Product Marketing, Cloudera 
Nina Schick, Founder of Tamang Ventures, an advisory firm focused on Generative AI and the creator of ‘The Era of Generative AI’. 
Jeremy White, Senior innovation editor for Wired

 
















 















Guest speakers









Nina Schick
Author, Entrepreneur and Advisor specialising in Generative AI








Jeremy White
Senior Innovation Editor, WIRED








Miles Jupp
Actor, Comedian, Writer, Master of Ceremonies 















        Read bio
        








        Read bio
        








        Read bio
        












 



Speakers









Merv Adrian
Founder and Principal Analyst at IT Market Strategy (former Gartner)








Helen Davis
Head of Technology, West Midlands Police








Matt Bannock
Head of Data Engineering, LGIM








Wulstan Reeve
Head of Data Marketplace, LGIM








Stuart Toll
Senior Solutions Architect, Legal and General Investment Management (LGIM)








Boaz Rubin
VP,  Head of Network Software R&D, Amdocs








Andy Smith
Global Technology Alliances Director, Talend








Mark Smith
Associate Director and Data & AI Practice Lead, Accenture Amazon Business Group








Preetha Bedi
Senior Manager, Accenture Technology Cloud First








Jason Adae
UKI ISV Partner Sales Leader, AWS








Jay Limbasiya
Global AI & Data Science Business Development Lead, Dell Technologies








Leon Butler
VP Data & AI WW Sales Leader, IBM








Ebru Binboga, 
Director, Data AI and Automation, IBM Technology Sales UKI








Daniel Reichert
Tech Lead, Data Platform, Porsche








Adrian Whitehead
Sales Engineer, Unstructured Data Solutions, Dell Technologies








Faris Haddad
Global Data & Insights Lead, AABG Strategic Pursuits Team, AWS








Sue Daley
Director, Technology & Innovation, techUK








Robert Stanich
Principal Product Manager, Strategic Partnerships, Data & AI, IBM








Ramon Villarreal
Payments Modernisation Strategy, Red Hat








Paul MacKay
Cloud Director EMEA, Cloudera








Abhas
Chief Strategy Officer, Cloudera








Wim Stoop
Sr. Director, Product Marketing, Cloudera








Luke Roquet
Senior Vice President, Product Marketing, Cloudera








Chris Royles
Chief Technology Officer EMEA, Cloudera








Paul Codding
Executive Vice President, Product Strategy, Cloudera








Romain Picard
SVP EMEA, Cloudera








Paul Wooding
Regional Vice President, Cloudera








Hannah Smalltree
Sr Director, Integrated Marketing and Customer Advocacy, Cloudera








Hana Jeddy
Director, Customer Advocacy, Industry Marketing, Messaging & Content, Cloudera








Richard Van Heerden
Sales Engineer, Cloudera








Emma Rivett
Sr. Field Marketing Manager, Cloudera








Ryan Jendoubi
Solutions Engineer, Cloudera








Venkatesh Sellappa
Partner Solutions Engineering, EMEA - Cloudera








Priyank Patel
VP, Product Management, Cloudera








Frank O’Dowd
Chief Revenue Officer, Cloudera








Jaidev Karthickeyan
Principal Business Value Management, Cloudera








Mark Russell
Sales Account Manager, Cloudera








Jeff Rothwell
Solutions Engineer Manager, Cloudera








Jacob Bengtson
Principal Technical Evangelist, Cloudera








Alexander Wood
Global Head of Value Management, Cloudera









 










Partners






Co-hosts
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 



Platinum
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 

















 



 











 










Register now











                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                








By checking this box, I acknowledge that I will receive communication from IBM and Cloudera. I can unsubscribe at any time.






IBM may use my contact data to keep me informed of products, services and offerings



By Email







By Telephone







None









You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here. You may unsubscribe from receiving marketing emails by clicking the unsubscribe link in each such email. By submitting this form, I acknowledge that I have read and understand the IBM Privacy Statement here. I understand that IBM may take group photos or perform live streaming during the event for promotional purposes.







 
Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy. You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here.





 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                



























































Thank you for registering to Evolve 23 London.

You will receive a confirmation email in the upcoming days. If you have any question please email emea-marketing@cloudera.com indicating the event city.

We look forward to seeing you soon!














                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



