







































































Evolve 2023 Mumbai | In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Overview
Agenda
Sponsors
Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION
EVERYWHERE









 



 




 November 8, 2023 | 10:00 AM IST

 
JW Marriott, Mumbai Sahar
(Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At Evolve 2023 we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders - and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 





















Agenda










8:30 AM
Registration













9:30 AM


Cloudera Vision







Mayank Baid, Regional Vice President, Cloudera India
 















9:45 AM
Customer Keynote : Transformative AI in Banking













10:15 AM


Maximizing Flexibility of the Open Lakehouse with Apache Iceberg







Piyush Agarwal, Solutions Engineering Leader, Cloudera India
 















10:45 AM
Morning BREAK













11:15 AM


Cloudera Keynote : Trust your data, trust your AI







Hear from Cloudera  leadership to get timely insight into new strategies for enterprise data and generative AI where you’ll learn:

The critical role of ‘trust’ in the rapid evolution of AI. Find out what global enterprises are doing now to safely prepare and leverage all types of data for an AI-driven future. And see why trustable foundational data and models are critical for building a competitive advantage from Large Language Models (LLMs) and GPT based domain solutions.
The new open data lakehouse and requirements for trustable AI. Discover how to make platforms “AI-ready” with data context, lineage tracking, governance and security. See how low-code/no-code capabilities can modernize or eliminate costly ETL processes – and hear the economic case for hybrid multi-cloud architectures. Find out what’s new in open-source innovation for AI.
How Generative AI, LLMs and other critical AI-enabling capabilities work by leveraging Cloudera Data Platform. Learn how to safely incorporate new transformer libraries, vector databases and open source LLMs. Get insight on how to assess and avoid the risks of AI experimentation.

















11:45 AM


Cloudera + IBM: Building Next Generation Data Architectures







Modern architectures must meet a variety of complex requirements across all platforms -- from business agility to resiliency, security, scalability and the new demands of AI. In this session the speakers will cover best practices from the most innovative enterprises and how to navigate rapidly changing technology landscape and next-gen business requirements.
















12:15 AM


Fireside Chat : Data Innovation in Cloud







In this session  data leaders will discuss how they have driven business innovation within their organisation by unlocking value from data in multiple environments - in the private cloud or across hybrid and multiple public clouds.
















12:45 PM
Lunch and Showcase Area













1:45 PM


Panel Discussion on Modernized Data Architecture







Hear from the data practitioners on how they have implemented and tackled  transformative business use cases with a modernized data architecture. 















2:15 PM
Partner Session












2:45 PM
Faster & Actionable Insights with Data in Motion












3:15 PM
Afternoon Break and Showcase Area













3:45 PM


Panel Discussion on Transformative AI







Join us as the data visionaries share how they have built and deployed use cases for enterprise-scale machine learning and have industrialized AI to automate, secure and optimize data-driven decision-making and/or applications.















4:15 PM
Partner Session












4:45 PM
Lucky Draw












5:00 PM
Closing remarks












5:00 PM
ENDS













 










Co-hosts
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 



Platinum Partners




















 



 











 










Register now









Middle Name




First Name







Last Name







Job Title







Business Email







Company







Phone








Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy. You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here.







Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.







By checking this box, I acknowledge that I will receive communication from IBM and Cloudera. I can unsubscribe at any time.






IBM may use my contact data to keep me informed of products, services and offerings



By Email







By Telephone







None









You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here. You may unsubscribe from receiving marketing emails by clicking the unsubscribe link in each such email. By submitting this form, I acknowledge that I have read and understand the IBM Privacy Statement here. I understand that IBM may take group photos or perform live streaming during the event for promotional purposes.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thank you for registering to Evolve 23 Mumbai.


You will receive a confirmation email shortly, and we look forward to seeing you at the event!














                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



