







































































Evolve 2023 Singapore  | In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Overview
Speakers
Agenda
Sponsors
Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION
EVERYWHERE









 



 




July 12, 2023 | 9 AM - 5:30 PM
 
Marina Bay Sands, Singapore
(Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At our premier event for Asia-Pacific, Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders–and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 















Guest speaker









Gerd Leonhard
Futurist, Humanist, Author of “Technology vs. Humanity”, CEO of The Futures Agency















        Read bio
        




















 



Speakers









Donald MacDonald
SVP, Head of Group Data Office, OCBC








Dr. Sean Lam
Head of Data Science, Singapore Health Services








Vincent Kwan
Head of Data, CLSA Limited








Tul Roteseree
Head of Data and Analytics Bank of Ayudhya








Andrea Pisoni
Head of Data and Analytics, OCBC








Figen Ulgen
LINE Corporation








Jasmine Yong
Vice President, Data Governance & Enablement Ambank








Handika Hakim
Vice President of Business Analytics, Bank Negara Indonesia








Jinsoo Jang
Team Leader of NW Bigdata Engineering Team, LG Uplus








Bramantyo Danur Jati
Assistant Vice President, Bank Mandiri








Frank O’Dowd
Chief Revenue Officer








Daniel Hand
APAC CTO, Cloudera








Remus Lim
VP - Asia Pacific & Japan, Cloudera








Lim Wee Tee
RSD - Growth & Emerging Markets, Cloudera








Wanpracha Chaovalitwongse
Senior Director, Data Management and Analytics, Bank of Thailand








Calvin Gan
Head of Enterprise Data Management, UOB








David R Hardoon
Group Chief Data and AI Officer, Union Bank of the Philippines








Ratikant Sahu
Executive Director, Group Technology & Operations, UOB








Tan Ban Horng
Head of Data Platform Solutions, OCBC Bank









 



















Agenda










8:15 AM
Registration













9:00 AM


Welcome address 







Remus Lim Vice President, Asia Pacific Cloudera
















9:15 AM


Guest Speaker : The Future of AI and the enterprise







Gerd Leonhard Futurist, Humanist, Author of “Technology vs. Humanity”, CEO of The Futures Agency
Some say that the recent rise of AI represents a 'Sputnik moment' or is akin to the invention of electricity, potentially resulting in a 8-10x increase in global GDP over the next 20 years. Others fear that a global race towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) could spiral out of control and doom humanity. Futurist Gerd Leonhard will explain what is next for AI, GenerativeAI and LLMs such as ChatGPT, what is real or what might become real (and when), where the low-hanging fruits are for enterprises, and how to design a Good Future with AI. 
He will touch on topics such as digital ethics, standards and regulation, and the differences in cultural adoption, while pointing out parallels to what is happening with augmented/virtual/mixed reality, quantum computing and other imminent 'king-maker' technologies. As Gerd likes to say 'The Future is better than we think - we just need to design it wisely'
















9:45 AM


Customer Keynote : Transformative AI in OCBC







Donald MacDonald, Senior Vice President, Head of Group Data Office - OCBC Bank
















10:15 AM


Cloudera Vision







Frank O'Dowd, Chief Revenue Officer - Cloudera
 
















10:25 AM


Cloudera Keynote: Trust your Data, Trust your AI








Sudhir Menon, Chief Product Officer - Cloudera
Luke Roquet, Senior Vice President, Product Marketing - Cloudera
Paul Codding, Executive Vice President, Product Management - Cloudera

Hear from Cloudera business and technical leadership to get timely insight into new strategies for enterprise data and generative AI where you’ll learn:

The critical role of ‘trust’ in the rapid evolution of AI. Find out what global enterprises are doing now to safely prepare and leverage all types of data for an AI-driven future. And see why trustable foundational data and models are critical for building a competitive advantage from Large Language Models (LLMs) and GPT based domain solutions.
The new open data lakehouse and requirements for trustable AI. Discover how to make platforms “AI-ready” with data context, lineage tracking, governance and security. See how low-code/no-code capabilities can modernize or eliminate costly ETL processes – and hear the economic case for hybrid multi-cloud architectures. Find out what’s new in open-source innovation for AI.
How Generative AI, LLMs and other critical AI-enabling capabilities work by leveraging Cloudera Data Platform. Learn how to safely incorporate new transformer libraries, vector databases and open source LLMs. Get insight on how to assess and avoid the risks of AI experimentation.

 















10:55 AM
Morning BREAK













11:15 AM


Maximize Flexiblity of the Open Lakehouse with Apache Iceberg








Priyank Patel, VP, Product Management - Cloudera
Figen Ulgen, Chief Data Office - LINE Corporation
Tan Ban Horng, Head of Data Platform Solutions - OCBC Bank

















11:45 AM


Fireside chat with LG Uplus: Driving operational optimisation and efficiency with AI








Jinsoo Jang, Team Leader of NW Bigdata Engineering Team - LG Uplus
Daniel Hand, Field CTO APAC - Cloudera

















12:15 PM


Fireside Chat with Union Bank: AI Innovation on Cloud








David R Hardoon, Group Chief Data and AI Officer - Union Bank of the Philippines
Luke Roquet, Senior Vice President, Product Marketing - Cloudera
















12:45 PM
Lunch and Showcase Area













1:45 PM


Co-host Panel discussion: Building Next-Generation Data Architectures







Panellists:

Stuart Loy, Senior Manager, Solutions Architecture, Global Financial Services - AWS
Kelvin Looi, VP, Data & AI Sales, APAC - IBM
Goh Teck Joo, Senior Director, Global AI & Analytics Accounts - Intel Corporation

Moderated by:

Michelle Hoover, Vice President, Cloud Partners - Cloudera

Modern architectures must meet a variety of complex requirements across all platforms -- from business agility to resiliency, security, scalability and the new demands of AI. In this panel discussion, you will hear: 

What guidance do these tech leaders have for data teams navigating a rapidly changing technology landscape and next-gen business requirements?
How do they recommend that enterprises span old and new, and "future-proof" architectures?
What best practices are emerging from the world's most innovative enterprises?

 
















2:15 PM


Panel Discussion on Modernized Data Architecture With APAC Data Impact Award Finalists







Panellists:

Wanpracha Chaovalitwongse, Senior Director of the Data Management and Analytics Department - Bank of Thailand
Vincent Kwan, Head of Data - CLSA Limited
A/Prof Sean Lam, Head of Data Science Health Services Research Centre - SingHealth

Moderated by

Sudir Menon, Chief Product Officer - Cloudera

Hear from the data practitioners on how they have implemented and tackled  transformative business use cases with a modernized data architecture. 
















2:45 PM


Panel Discussion on Industry Transformation With APAC Data Impact Award Finalists







Panellists:

Jasmine Yong, Vice President, Data Governance & Enablement - Ambank
Handika Hakim, Head of Business Analytics - Bank Negara Indonesia
Ratikant Sahu, Executive Director, Group Technology & Operations -UOB 

Moderated by:


Abhas Ricky, Chief Strategy Officer - Cloudera

During this session, the finalists of the APAC Data Impact Awards will share how they have moved their business to the next level and disrupted their industry by identifying new technologies, applying new skills and operationalising processes.















3:15 PM
Afternoon Break and Showcase Area













3:35 PM


Panel Discussion on People First With APAC Data Impact Award Finalists







Panellists:

Bramantyo Danur Jati, Assistant Vice President - Bank Mandiri
Calvin Gan, Head Enterprise Data Management - UOB

Moderated by:

Hana Jeddy, Director, Customer Advocacy - Cloudera

Hear how these organizations are using data to transform the future of workplace culture and society as a whole through the employee lifecycle.
















4:05 PM


Panel Discussion on Transformative AI With APAC Data Impact Award Finalists







Panellists:

Tul Roteseree, Head of Data and Analytics - Bank of Ayudhya
Andrea Pisoni, Head of Data and Analytics - OCBC Bank

Moderated by: 

Priyank Patel, Vice President, Product Management - Cloudera

Join us as the data visionaries share how they have built and deployed use cases for enterprise-scale machine learning and have industrialized AI to automate, secure and optimize data-driven decision-making and/or applications.
















4:35 PM


Partner Session: Winner of ASEAN Partner Innovation Award







Moderated by Cloudera

Axis Bank 
Reliance Industries 
Marlon Roy Pelayo, Data Platforms and Architecture Head, Enterprise Data Group - UnionBank


Learn from the data leaders how to drive business innovation by unlocking value from data in multiple environments - in the private cloud or across hybrid and multiple public clouds.
















4:50 PM


Unveiling the winners of APAC Data Impact Awards 2023







Frank O’Dowd, Chief Revenue Officer - Cloudera
















5:05 PM


Closing Remarks








Lim Wee Tee, Vice President, ASEAN & Taiwan - Cloudera
















5:10 PM
Networking Reception












6:30 PM
Event Ends













 










Co-hosts
















 



 










 



 










 



 







 



Platinum Partners





















 



 





 









 



 











 










Register now
















Online registration is now closed.
 
It's not too late! Please join us at MBS Expo & Convention Centre and register in-person. On-site registration opens from 08:30 on Wednesday, 12 July 2023.
 











 












                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



