







































































Evolve 2023 Sydney | In Person Event | Data Anywhere, Innovation Everywhere

















































Register now

























In person event






DATA ANYWHERE
INNOVATION
EVERYWHERE









 



 




October 11th, 2023 | 9 AM - 2:30 PM AEDT
 
Ivy Sunroom
330 George Street, Sydney (access via the lift lobby on Ash Street) (Map)









 Register now















 






















When everyone has access to data and analytics, innovation can come from anywhere and go everywhere. How are you harnessing data innovations to take your business to the next level?

At Evolve 2023, we’ll show you ways data strategies can transform your business, creatively solve problems, and even help your community. You’ll learn how from industry innovators, analytics experts, and data leaders–and you’ll leave with solutions that will delight your customers and change the game.











 













Guest speaker









The Honourable Victor Dominello
















        Read bio
        




















 



Speakers









Alan Longmuir
Delivery Manager, Deakin University








Katarina Dulanovic
General Manager, Data Office








Keir Garrett
GVP ANZ, Cloudera








Luke Roquet
Senior Vice President, Product Marketing, Cloudera








Paul Codding
Executive Vice President, Product Strategy, Cloudera









 

















Agenda










8:30 AM
Registration & networking













9:00 AM


Welcome address







Keir Garrett, GVP ANZ, Cloudera
















9:10 AM


Keynote speaker







The Honourable Victor Dominello
















09:40 AM


Trust your Data, Trust your AI







Luke Roquet, Senior Vice President, Product Marketing - Cloudera
Paul Codding, Executive Vice President, Product Management - Cloudera
















10:10 AM


Customer keynote: Deakin University







Guest Speaker: Alan Longmuir, Delivery Manager, Deakin University















10:40 AM
Cloudera Vision












11:00 AM
Morning tea













11:30 AM


Panel discussion with Allianz & Bank of New Zealand







Guest Speaker: Katarina Dulanovic, General Manager, Data Office
Guest speaker: Anna Tarasoff, General Manager Data, BNZ
Moderator: Mark Carter
















12:00 PM


Turn AI hype into business reality







Vini
















12:30 PM


Panel discussion







Guest speaker: David Sheard, Co-Founder and Director, Nuvento
Guest speaker: Charles Sevior, CTO Unstructured Data Solutions, Dell
















1:00 PM


Fireside chat with ANZ Bank







Guest Speaker: Anthony Hua, Product Area Lead in Cloud Data & Analytics, ANZ Bank
Moderator: Keir Garrett, GVP ANZ, Cloudera
















1:25 PM


APAC Data Impact Award







Award announcer: Keir Garrett, GVP ANZ, Cloudera















1:30 PM
Networking Lunch













 











Register now









Middle Name




First Name







Last Name







Job Title







Business Email







Company







Phone








Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy. You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here.







Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.







I agree to Cloudera's terms and conditions.







By checking this box, I acknowledge that I will receive communication from IBM and Cloudera. I can unsubscribe at any time.






IBM may use my contact data to keep me informed of products, services and offerings



By Email







By Telephone







None









You can withdraw your marketing consent at any time here. You may unsubscribe from receiving marketing emails by clicking the unsubscribe link in each such email. By submitting this form, I acknowledge that I have read and understand the IBM Privacy Statement here. I understand that IBM may take group photos or perform live streaming during the event for promotional purposes.








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Thank you for registering to Evolve 23 Sydney.


You will receive a confirmation email shortly, and we look forward to seeing you at the event!














                            About
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Products
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            
                            Solutions
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

                            Service and Support
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        




   



                        Contact Us
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488






© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.













 






 



