June 2022Cloudera Docs
June 2022
This release of the Data Hub service introduces new features.
Customer managed encryption keys on AWS (June 7, 2022)
Previously, Data Hub EBS encryption could be configured only as part of Data Hub creation. Now
    you can also configure encryption during environment registration and all EBS volumes and RDS
    database and used by the Data Hubs running in that environment will be encrypted. It is still
    possible to add a CMK during Data Hub creation, overwriting the encryption key provided during
    environment registration for that Data Hub. For more information, refer to Adding a customer managed encryption key to a CDP environment
     running on AWS and Configuring encryption for Data Hub's EBS volumes on
    AWS.

Cluster template overrides (June 7, 2022)
As an alternative to creating a custom template, you can specify custom configurations that
        override or append the properties (service and role configs) in a built-in or custom Data
        Hub template. These configurations are saved as a shared resource called “cluster
        template overrides,” and can be used and re-used across Data Hub clusters in different
        environments.
For more information, see Cluster template overrides.

Creating multi-AZ Data Hubs on AWS (June 9, 2022)


By default, CDP provisions Data Hubs in a single AWS availability zone (AZ), but you can
    optionally choose to deploy them across multiple availability zones (multi-AZ). For more
    information, see Creating a multi-AZ Data Hub on AWS.
Multi-AZ deployments do not use a CloudFormation template for VM creation. Neither
        autoscaling groups or launch templates are created. The cluster resources are managed
        individually using AWS native components (for example, EC2 instances).

Customer managed encryption keys on GCP (June 16, 2022)


By default, a Google-managed encryption key is used to encrypt disks and Cloud SQL instances
      used by Data Hub clusters, but you can optionally configure CDP to use a customer-managed
      encryption key (CMEK) instead. This can only be configured during CDP environment registration
      using CDP CLI. For more information, refer to Adding a customer managed encryption key for GCP.



Data Engineering HA template for Azure (June 22, 2022)
The Data Engineering HA template for Azure is now GA. For more information see Data Engineering clusters (Azure).

New option to delete attached volumes during Data Hub repair (June 29, 2022)
When you initiate a repair from the Data Hub Hardware tab, you have
        the option to delete any volumes attached to the instance. For more information see Performing manual repair.


Parent topic: Older releases