Updating Ranger UsersCloudera Docs
Updating Ranger Users
 Before you can launch SMM, you must manually add a user to Ranger, add the user to
        Ranger Policies for the Kafka service, and add the SMM user to the Ranger Policy for Kafka.
        Additionally, if the SSL is enabled for Ranger, you must add the Ranger plugin SSL CLName
        configuration value. 

Add a User to Ranger.


From the Ranger UI, go to Settings, then Users/Groups, and ensure that
                            the Users tab is selected.
Click Add New User.
Provide the user name. This user name is derived from the
                                streams_messaging_manger_principal_name you set
                            during the Ambari Kerberos configuration. For example:
                                streamsmsgmgr-cluster-smm.
For the Role, select User. For the Group, select
                            hadoop, streamsmsgmgr, and
                                ranger.
Click Save.



Add user to Ranger Policy for Kafka Service.


From Ranger UI, Service Manager, in the Kafka service pane, click the
                            hyperlink (cluster-name_kafka). 
Add the SMM user to both policies. Select the edit policies icon, and
                            from Allow Conditions, add the SMM user to the Select User field. Also
                            add sreamsmsgmgr user, if it does not already exist. 



Add SMM user to Ranger Policy for Kafka.


From the Ranger UI, Services Manager, and select the Edit icon for the
                            Kafka service.
Add the streamsmsgmgr-cluster-smm user name to the
                            following two configuration values:
policy.download.auth.users
tag.download.auth.users




(If SSL is enabled for Ranger) Update the Ranger plugin SSL CLName. Go to
                    Config Properties | Ranger plugin SSL CLName. For example: Kafka Client. The
                    CLName is the value you set up when generating your Ranger Admin SSL
                    certificate. 


Related informationRecommended security configurationParent topic: Integrating your cluster with DPS