Migrate Kafka Using the Default Replication PolicyCloudera Docs
Migrate Kafka Using the Default Replication Policy
How to Migrate Kafka with Streams Replication Manager using the default replication
    policy.

You can use Streams Replication Manager (SRM) out of the box with its default
        replication policy to migrate Kafka data from a HDF cluster to a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.
        With this method, the remote topics in the target cluster will have different names. As a
        result, the replicated environment will differ from the source environment. You will need to
        make significant changes to all Kafka producers and consumers otherwise they will not be
        able to connect to the correct topics in the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. 


Setup and Configure Streams Replication Manager in the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. For
        more information, see Add and Configure SRM and the SRM Configuration Examples
        in the SRM documentation for Runtime. 


Use the srm-control tool to include every topic and every
                    consumer group.

Including consumer groups is required for offset translation.
srm-control topics --source [SOURCE_CLUSTER] --target [TARGET_CLUSTER] --add ".*"

srm-control groups --source [SOURCE_CLUSTER] --target [TARGET_CLUSTER] --add ".*"

Validate that data is being migrated.
Use the Cluster Replications page on the Streams Messaging
            Manager (SMM) UI to monitor and validate the status of the migration.
Stop producers.Stop consumer.Reconfigure all consumers to read from CDP Private Cloud Base Kafka and apply offset
          translation using SRM.Start consumers.Reconfigure all producers to write to CDP Private Cloud Base Kafka.
The HDF instances of Kafka and SMM are no longer required.
Start producers.

Kafka is migrated. Kafka clients produce and consume from the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.
        Migration is complete.


Related informationSRM Configuration ExamplesAdd and Configure SRMParent topic: Migrate Kafka Using Streams Replication Manager