Migrate Kafka Using Streams Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Migrate Kafka Using Streams Replication Manager
Overview of the methods that can be used to migrate Kafka from HDF to CDP Private Cloud Base
    using Streams Replication Manager.
There are two approaches to using Streams Replication Manager (SRM) for data migration. You
      can either use SRM out of the box with its default replication policy, or configure it to use
      a custom one. 
SRM replicates source topics to remote topics (replicated topics) on the target cluster.
      Because of how SRM’s default replication policy works, remote topics on the target cluster
      will have different names than the topics on the source cluster. The name references the
      source cluster that the topic was replicated from in the form of a prefix. For example, the
        topic1 topic from the us-west source cluster creates the
        us-west.topic1 remote topic on the target cluster. As a result, the
      replicated environment differs from the source environment. 
Kafka does not support renaming topics. Therefore, reconfiguring existing Kafka clients to
      use the remote topic names is required once all topics are replicated. 
However, in many cases this approach may not be suitable, therefore, an alternative method is
      also provided. This involves configuring SRM to use a custom replication policy, which does
      not change the remote topic names.
Review the following notes and decide which approach is better suited for your
      environment.

Migration with the default replication policy


SRM can be used out of the box.
Remote topics will have a different name in the target cluster. 
Reconfiguration of all Kafka clients is required.




Migration with the custom replication policy 


Advanced configuration of SRM to use an alternate replication policy is
              required.
Source and remote topics will have identical names.
Reconfiguration of all Kafka clients is not required.
Using an SRM service configured with the custom replication policy for any other
              scenario than data migration is not supported. Once migration is complete, the SRM
              instance you set up has to be reverted to use the default replication policy or
              deleted from the cluster.




Migrate Kafka Using the Default Replication PolicyHow to Migrate Kafka with Streams Replication Manager using the default replication     policy.Migrate Kafka Using a Custom Replication PolicyHow to migrate Kafka with Streams Replication Manager using a custom replication     policy. Parent topic: Migrating Streaming workloads from HDF to CDP Private Cloud Base