Experiments - Concepts and TerminologyCloudera Docs
Experiments - Concepts and Terminology
This topic walks you through some basic concepts and terminology
    related to experiments. 
The term experiment refers to a non interactive batch execution
        script that is versioned across input parameters, project files, and
        output. Batch experiments are associated with a specific project (much
        like sessions or jobs) and have no notion of scheduling; they run at
        creation time. To support versioning of the project files and retain
        run-level artifacts and metadata, each experiment is executed in an
        isolated container. 

Lifecycle of an Experiment


The rest of this section describes the different stages in the
        lifecycle of an experiment - from launch to completion. 


Launch Experiment

In this step you will select a script from your
                           project that will be run as part of the experiment, and the resources
                           (memory/GPU) needed to run the experiment. The engine kernel will be
                           selected by default based on your script. For detailed instructions on
                           how to launch an experiment, see Getting Started with Cloudera Machine Learning.





Build

When you launch the experiment, Cloudera Machine Learning first builds a new versioned engine image where
                    the experiment will be executed in isolation. This new
                    engine includes:
the base engine image used by the project (check
                            Project > 
                            Settings)
a snapshot of the project filesystem
environmental variables inherited from the
                        project.
packages explicitly specified in the project's build
                        script (cdsw-build.sh) It is your
                          responsibility to provide the complete list of
                          dependencies required for the experiment via the
                            cdsw-build.sh file. As part of the
                           engine's build process, Cloudera Machine Learning will run the cdsw-build.sh
                          script and install the packages or libraries requested
                          there on the new image. 



For details about the build process and examples on how to
                           specify dependencies, see Engines for Experiments and Models. .





Schedule

Once the engine is built the experiment is scheduled for
                    execution like any other job or session. Once the requested
                    CPU/GPU and memory have been allocated to the experiment, it
                    will move on to the execution stage. 
Note that if your deployment is running low on memory and
                    CPU, your runs may spend some time in this stage. 





Execute

This is the stage where the script you have selected will
                    be run in the newly built engine environment. This is the
                    same output you would see if you had executed the script in
                    a session in the Workbench console.
You can watch the execution in progress in the individual
                    run's Session tab. 
You can also go to the project
                        Overview > Experiments
                    page to see a table of all the experiments launched within
                    that project and their current status. 

Run ID: A numeric ID that tracks all
                    experiments launched on a Cloudera Machine Learning
                    deployment. It is not limited to the scope of a single user
                    or project.






Related informationRunning an Experiment with Cloudera Machine LearningParent topic: Experiments