Workflows for Active ModelsCloudera Docs
Workflows for Active Models
This topic walks you through some nuances between the
    different workflows available for re-deploying and re-building models. 


Active Model - A model that is in the Deploying,
          Deployed, or Stopping stages.
You can
        make changes to a model even after it has been deployed and is actively
        serving requests. Depending on business factors and changing resource
        requirements, such changes will likely range from changes to the model
        code itself, to simply modifying the number of CPU/GPUs requested for
        the model. In addition, you can also stop and restart active models. 
Depending on your requirement, you can perform
        one of the following actions:

Re-deploy an Existing Build
Re-deploying a model involves re-publishing a previously-deployed model
        in a new serving environment - this is, with an updated number of
        replicas or memory/CPU/GPU allocation. For example, circumstances that
        require a re-deployment might include: 
An active model that previously requested a large number of
            CPUs/GPUs that are not being used efficiently.
An active model that is dropping requests because it is falling
            short of replicas. 
An active model needs to be rolled back to one of its previous
            versions. 


warningCurrently, Cloudera Machine Learning only allows one active
        deployment per model. This means when you re-deploy a build, the current
        active deployment will go offline until the re-deployment process is
        complete and the new deployment is ready to receive requests. Prepare
        for model downtime accordingly.
To
        re-deploy an existing model:
Go to the model Overview page.
Click Deployments. 

Select the version you want to deploy and click
                Re-deploy this Build.note




Modify the model serving environment as needed. 
Click Deploy Model.



Deploy a New Build for a Model
Deploying a new build for a model involves both, re-building the Docker
        image for the model, and deploying this new build. Note that this
        is not required if you only need to update the resources allocated to
        the model. As an example, changes that require a new build might include:
Code changes to the model implementation.
Renaming the function that is used to invoke the model.


warningCurrently, Cloudera Machine Learning does not allow you to create
        a new build for a model without also deploying it. This combined with
        the fact that you can only have one active deployment per model means
        that once the new model is built, the current active deployment will go
        offline so that the new build can be deployed. Prepare for model
        downtime accordingly.
To
        create a new build and deploy it:
Go to the model Overview page.

Click Deploy New Build. 


Complete the form and click Deploy
            Model.



Stop
        a Model
To stop
        a model (all replicas), go to the model Overview
        page and click Stop. Click
          OK to confirm.

Restart a Model
To
        restart a model (all replicas), go to the model
          Overview page and click
          Restart. Click OK to
        confirm.
Restarting a model does not let you make any code changes to the model.
        It should primarily be used as a way to quickly re-initialize or
        re-connect to resources. 


