Using Model RegistryCloudera Docs
Using Model Registry
The Model Registry is the core enabler for MLOps, or DevOps for machine
    learning.
The Model Registry stores and manages machine learning models and associated metadata, such
      as the model's version, dependencies, and performance. The registry enables MLOps and
      facilitates the development, deployment, and maintenance of machine learning models in a
      production environment.



Model Registry includes functionality for the following tasks:

Storing and organizing different versions of a machine learning model and its associated
        metadata.
Tracking the lineage of a model, including who created it, when it was created, and any
        changes made to it over time. 
Providing APIs for accessing and deploying models, as well as for querying and searching
        the registry.
Integrating with CI/CD pipelines and other tools used in the MLOps workflow.

Model registries help organizations improve the quality and reliability of their machine
      learning models by providing a centralized location for storing and managing models, as well
      as enabling traceability and reproducibility of model development. They also make deploying
      and managing models in a production environment easier by providing a single source for model
      versions and dependencies.
The Model Registry integrates MLFlow and maintains compatibility with the open source
      ecosystem.
Limitations


Upgrade to the General Availability (GA) version of Model Registry might not be
            supported. Alternatively, upgrade to the GA version of Model Registry might require
            reinstalling Model Registry which could result in loss of Model Registry data configured
            with the technical preview (TP) version of Model Registry.
Model Registry currently does not support the creation of private Model Registry with
            UDR on AKS.




Setting up Model RegistryThe Model Registry is the core enabler for MLOps, or DevOps for machine     learning.Registering and deploying a Model RegistryAfter you've set up Model Registry, you can create, register, and deploy model     registries.