How to Install Cumulative Hotfix (CHF)Cloudera Docs
How to Install Cumulative Hotfix (CHF)
You can upgrade CDP 7.1.7, CDP 7.1.7 SP1, CDP 7.1.7.SP2, CDP 7.1.8 and so on with the
        CHFs available. Cumulative Hotfix is a collection of hotfixes. You can use the same
        procedure to install hotfixes as well. To upgrade the CDP cluster with the CHF or a
        hotfix:

Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.

Click Parcels from the left menu.

Click Parcel Repositories & Network Settings.

noteIf the CHF URL is available in the parcel
                        repository, then you can skip to step 8. If not, then proceed with step
                        4.


In the Remote Parcel Repository URLs section, click the
                        "+" icon and add the CHF URL for your Parcel
                    repository.

Click Save & Verify Configuration. A message with
                    the status of the verification appears above the Remote Parcel
                        Repository URLs section. If the URL is not valid, check the URL
                    and enter the correct URL.

After the URL is verified, click Close.

Locate the row in the table that contains the new Cloudera Runtime parcel and
                    click the Download button.

After the download of the new Cloudera Runtime CHF parcel is complete, click
                    the Distribute button.
Wait for the parcel to be distributed and unpacked before continuing. Cloudera
                    Manager displays the status of the Cloudera Runtime CHF parcel distribution.
                    Click on the status display to view detailed status for each host.

Click Activate. Cloudera Runtime CHF parcels are
                    activated on the cluster.

When the parcel is activated, click the Cloudera Manager logo to return to the
                    home page.
The cluster is now updated with the CHF you applied.

When the parcel is activated, click the Actions menu next to the cluster name
                    and select Post Cloudera Runtime Upgrade. 

Restart the cluster: Click the Actions menu and select
                        Restart.

Click Actions > Finalize the
                        upgrade.


