Upgrading Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server 7.1.xCloudera Docs
Upgrading Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server 7.1.x
How to upgrade Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server 7.1.x.

cautionCloudera recommends that you do not create new encryption keys,
                encryption zones, or clients during an upgrade.
noteBefore upgrading Key Trustee Server, back up the Key Trustee Server. Refer Backing up Key Trustee Server and clients
                and Restoring Navigator Key Trustee Server for
                more information.


You must create an internal repository to install or upgrade the Cloudera Navigator
                data encryption components. For instructions on creating internal repositories, see
                the following topic:
Configuring a Local Parcel
                            Repository

From CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6, the KEYTRUSTEE_SERVER parcel is available in the
                same location in which the Cloudera runtime parcel is placed. If you have configured
                the parcel repository for CDP Private Cloud Base upgrade, the KEYTRUSTEE_SERVER
                parcel is displayed automatically.

Upgrading Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server 7.1.x Using Cloudera
                Manager
Minimum Required Role: Cluster Administrator (also provided by
                    Full Administrator)


Add your internal parcel repository to Cloudera Manager following the
                    instructions in Configuring Cloudera Manager Server Parcel
                        Settings.

Download, distribute, and activate the latest Key Trustee Server parcel on the
                    cluster containing the Key Trustee Server host, following the instructions in
                        Managing Parcels.

importantThe KEYTRUSTEE parcel in Cloudera
                        Manager is not the Key Trustee Server parcel; it is the Key Trustee
                        KMS parcel. The parcel name for Key Trustee Server is
                            KEYTRUSTEE_SERVER.
importantDo not accept the prompt from CM to perform a
                        rolling restart. Instead, restart the KTS services manually, beginning with
                        active instance followed by the passive instance(s).


If you have upgraded from a Key Trustee version lesser than 7.1.4 to a version
            greater than 7.1.4, then perform these steps on both the Active and Passive KTS nodes.
            This is to mitigate the SSL handshake issue caused due to absence of Subject Alternative
            name in KTS after upgrading to version > 7.1.4.
Stop the KTS service from CM.
Navigate to the location /var/lib/keytrustee/.keytrustee/.ssl/
                     cd /var/lib/keytrustee/.keytrustee/.ssl/  
Backup the cert files ssl-cert-keytrustee-pk.pem and ssl-cert-keytrustee.pem
                    mv ssl-cert-keytrustee-pk.pem ssl-cert-keytrustee-pk_backup.pem 
mv ssl-cert-keytrustee.pem ssl-cert-keytrustee_backup.pem 
Re generate the cert file using the command
                    ktadmin init 
Configure the keyhsm to trust the new cert file.
                    keyhsm trust /var/lib/keytrustee/.keytrustee/.ssl/ssl-cert-keytrustee.pem
For testing and validation execute below command 
                    curl -vk https://$(hostname-f):11371/test_hsm
Start the KTS service from CM. 



Parent topic: Step 5: After You Upgrade Cloudera Manager