Troubleshooting a Cloudera Manager UpgradeCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting a Cloudera Manager Upgrade







Parent topic: Upgrading Cloudera Manager 7
The Cloudera Manager Server fails to start after upgrade.

The Cloudera Manager Server fails to start after upgrade.


Possible Reasons

There were active commands running before upgrade. This includes
          commands a user might have run and also commands Cloudera Manager
          automatically triggers, either in response to a state change, or
          something configured to run on a schedule, such as Backup and Disaster
          Recovery replication or snapshot jobs.



Possible Solutions


Stop any running commands from the Cloudera Manager Admin Console
            or wait for them to complete. See Aborting a Pending
            Command.
Ensure that you have disabled any scheduled replication or
              snapshot jobs from the Cloudera Manager Admin Console to
            complete before proceeding with the upgrade. See HDFS Replication.





Re-Running the Cloudera Manager Upgrade Wizard

Minimum Required Role:
Full
            Administrator. This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
The first time you log in to the Cloudera Manager server after
        upgrading your Cloudera Manager software, the upgrade wizard runs. If
        you did not complete the wizard at that time, or if you had hosts that
        were unavailable at that time and still need to be upgraded, you can
        re-run the upgrade wizard:
Click the Hosts tab.
Click Re-run Upgrade Wizard or Review Upgrade Status.
            This takes you back through the installation wizard to upgrade Cloudera Manager Agents on your
            hosts as necessary.
Select the release of the Cloudera Manager
            Agent to install. Normally, this is the Matched Release for this
              Cloudera Manager Server. However, if you used a custom
            repository (instead of archive.cloudera.com) for the Cloudera
            Manager server, select Custom Repository and provide the
            required information. The custom repository allows you to use an
            alternative location, but that location must contain the matched
            Agent version.
Specify credentials and initiate Agent installation:
Select root for the
                  root account, or select Another
                  user and enter the username for an account that
                has password-less sudo privileges.
Select an authentication method:
If you choose password authentication, enter and confirm
                    the password.
If you choose public-key authentication, provide a
                    passphrase and path to the required key files.
You can modify the default SSH port if
                necessary.
Specify the maximum number of host installations to run at
                once. The default and recommended value is 10. You can adjust
                this based on your network capacity.
Click Continue.


When you click Continue, the Cloudera Manager
        Agent is upgraded on all the currently managed hosts. You cannot search
        for new hosts through this process. To add hosts to your cluster, click
        the Add New Hosts to Cluster button.


