Step 1: Getting Started Upgrading a ClusterCloudera Docs
Step 1: Getting Started Upgrading a Cluster
Tasks you should perform before starting the upgrade.




Loading Filters ...

 
7.0.3 7.1.1 7.1.2 7.1.3 7.1.4
          7.2.4 7.3.1 7.4.4 7.5.1 7.6.1 7.6.7 7.7.1
          7.7.3


7.1.8 7.1.7.1000 7.1.7 7.1.6 7.1.5
          7.1.4 7.1.3 7.1.2 7.1.1
7.1.7.2000
7.7.3 7.7.1 7.6.7 7.6.1
          7.5.1 7.4.4 7.4.3 7.3.1 7.2.4 7.1.4 7.1.3 7.1.2
          7.1.1

noteNot all combinations of Current Cluster Version to New Cluster Version are
      supported. Before you upgrade your CDP cluster from one version to another, you must
      review table 2 to know the supported upgrades paths. For more information, see Supported in-place upgrade paths.
noteNot all combinations of Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime are
        supported. Ensure that the version of Cloudera Manager you are using
      supports the version of Cloudera Runtime you have selected. For details,
      see Cloudera Manager support for Cloudera
        Runtime, CDH and CDP Private Cloud Experiences  .

noteCDP Private Cloud Data Services version 1.3.4 requires Cloudera Manager 7.5.5 and Cloudera Runtime
        version 7.1.6 or 7.1.7 For more information, see CDP Private Cloud Data Services.


importantUpgrades to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.7 SP1 (7.1.7.1000)
        are supported only from Cloudera Runtime 7.1.7. 


noteIf you are upgrading to Cloudera Manager 7.5.1 or higher in order to
        install CDP Private Cloud Experiences version 1.3.1, you must use
        Cloudera Runtime version 7.1.6 or 7.1.7. For more information, see CDP Private Cloud
        Exeriences.


importantUpgrades from CDH 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3 are only supported for upgrades
        to CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.7 or higher. Upgrades from CDH 6.0 are not
        supported. 


importantTo upgrade to Cloudera Manager or CDH 5.x or 6.x,
          do not use the instructions on this page. See the Cloudera Enterprise Upgrade
          Guide.


warningUpgrades to Cloudera Runtime 7.0.3 are not
        supported.


noteUpgrades from CDH 6.x are supported only for upgrades to Cloudera
        Manager 7.4.4 or higher and Cloudera Runtime 7.1.7 or higher. Upgrades
        from CDH 6.0 are not supported. 


warningUpgrades from CDH 5.12 and lower to CDP Private Cloud Base are not supported. You must upgrade the cluster
        to CDH versions 5.13 - 5.16 before upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base. 

The version of CDH or Cloudera Runtime that you can
      upgrade to depends on the version of Cloudera
        Manager that is managing the cluster. You may need to upgrade Cloudera
        Manager before upgrading your clusters. Upgrades are not
        supported when using Cloudera Manager 7.0.3.
Before you upgrade a cluster, 
You need to gather information, review the limitations and release notes and run some
          checks on the cluster. See the Collect Information section below. Fill in the My
            Environment form below to customize your upgrade procedures.
You must clean all the HBase Master procedure stores. For more details, see Clean the HBase Master procedure store.


Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.

importantIf you have any add-on services installed using a
        CSD (Custom Service Descriptor), you must use Cloudera Manager 7.1.1 or
        higher to install the CDH 6 version of the CSD before upgrading the
        cluster to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1 or higher. During the upgrade,
        Cloudera Manager will prompt you to also install the Cloudera Runtime 7
        version of the CSD. Cloudera
          Manager version 7.1.4 or higher will prompt you to install any
          required intermediate versions of the CSD. To successfully
          complete the upgrade you must have the CDH 5, CDH 6, and Cloudera
          Runtime 7 versions of the CSD installed. After the upgrade, you can
          delete the CDH 5 and CDH 6 versions of the add-on service.This
          affects the following Cloudera services: CDSW, Nifi, and Nifi Registry
          as well as any CSDs created by third parties. See Add-on Services. 






noteIsilon is not supported for CDP Private Cloud Base version 7.1.5
          and lower.


noteIf your cluster uses Compute clusters in a Virtual Private Cluster
          (VPC) architecture, you must remove the compute cluster before
          upgrading the Base cluster. You can recreate the Compute cluster after
          the upgrade



note
After upgrading from CDH to CDP, the NodeManager recovery feature is
          enabled by default. This means that the
            yarn.nodemanager.recovery.enabled property is set
          to true. Cloudera recommends that you keep the
          NodeManager recovery feature enabled. If you set this property to
            false in your CDP cluster and then upgrade to a
          later CDP version, the feature will remain disabled.



important
In Cloudera Runtime 7.1.6 and higher, the way Streams Messaging
          Manager (SMM) integrates with Streams Replication Manager (SRM) has
          changed. SMM can only connect to and monitor an SRM service that is
          running in the same cluster as SMM. Monitoring an SRM service that is
          running in a cluster that is external to SMM is no longer supported. 
Connectivity between the two services is disabled by default after a
          successful upgrade. If you want to continue using SMM to monitor SRM,
          you must reconnect the two services following the upgrade.




noteCloudera Manager 7.7.3 should only be used when
          you need to use Python 3.8 for the Cloudera Manager agents. You must install Python 3.8 on
          all hosts before installing or upgrading to Cloudera Manager 7.7.3. Cloudera Manager
          7.7.3-CHF4 supports only RHEL 8.4, RHEL 8.6, RHEL 7.9, and SLES 15 SP4. See the CDP Private Cloud Base Installation Guide for more
          information.


warningUpgrades from Cloudera Manager 5.12 and lower to
          Cloudera Manager 7.1.1 or higher are not supported 


importantUpgrading Cloudera Manager to version 7.7.1 or
          higher from clusters where CDH 5.x is deployed is not supported. To
          upgrade such clusters: 
Upgrade Cloudera Manager to version 6.3.4.
Upgrade CDH to version 6.3.4
Upgrade Cloudera Manager to version 7.6.5 or higher 



warningFor upgrades from CDH clusters with Cloudera
          Navigator to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1 (or higher) clusters where
          Navigator is to be migrated to Apache Atlas, the cluster must have
          Kerberos enabled before upgrading. 


warningBefore upgrading CDH 5 clusters with Sentry to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.x
        clusters where Sentry privileges are to be transitioned to Apache Ranger:
The cluster must have Kerberos enabled. 
Verify that HDFS gateway roles exist on the hosts that runs the Sentry service. 

importantIf HDFS ACL sync is enabled (hdfs_sentry_sync_enable=true) on the CDH
        cluster, then you must install Ranger RMS to support the same functionality. For steps to
        install Ranger RMS, see Installing Ranger RMS. 


noteIf the cluster you are upgrading will include Atlas, Ranger, or
          both, the upgrade wizard deploys one infrastructure Solr service to
          provide a search capability of the audit logs through the Ranger Admin
          UI and/or to store and serve Atlas metadata. Cloudera recommends that
          you do not use this service for customer workloads to avoid
          interference with audit and timeline performance. 



Parent topic: Upgrading a Cloudera Runtime Cluster
Collect Information

Collect the following information about your environment and fill in
        the form above. This information will be remembered by your browser on
        all pages in this Upgrade Guide. 

 Log in to the Cloudera Manager Server host.
          ssh my_cloudera_manager_server_host

Run the following command to find the current version of the
          Operating
          System:lsb_release -a
Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin console and find the following:
The version of Cloudera Manager used in your cluster. Go to Support > About.
The version of the JDK deployed in the cluster. Go to Support > About.
Whether High Availability is enabled for HDFS.If you see a
                standby namenode instead of a secondary namenode listed under Cloudera Manager >  HDFS >  Instances, then High Availability is enabled.
The Install Method and Current cluster
              version. The cluster version number and Install Method are
              displayed on the Cloudera Manager Home page, to the right of the
              cluster name.






Preparing to Upgrade a
      Cluster


You must have SSH access to the Cloudera Manager server hosts and be
          able to log in using the root account or an account that has
          password-less sudo permission to all the hosts.
Review the Requirements and Supported Versions for the new versions you are upgrading
          to. See: CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1
            Requirements and Supported Versions If your hosts require an operating system
          upgrade, you must perform the upgrade before upgrading the cluster. See Upgrading the Major Version Operating System.
Ensure that a supported version of Java is installed on all hosts in
          the cluster. See the links above. For installation instructions and
          recommendations, see Upgrading the JDK.
Review the following documents:
Review the following when upgrading to Cloudera Runtime 7.1 or higher:CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1
                    Requirements and Supported Versions

If your deployment has defined a Compute cluster and an associated
          Data Context, you will need to delete the Compute cluster and Data
          context before upgrading the base cluster and then recreate the
          Compute cluster and Data context after the upgrade. See Starting, Stopping, Refreshing, and
              Restarting a Cluster and Virtual Private Clusters and
              Cloudera SDX.
Review the upgrade procedure and reserve a maintenance window with
          enough time allotted to perform all steps. For production clusters,
          Cloudera recommends allocating up to a full day maintenance window to
          perform the upgrade, depending on the number of hosts, the amount of
          experience you have with Hadoop and Linux, and the particular hardware
          you are using.
If the cluster uses Impala, check your SQL against the newest
          reserved words listed in incompatible changes. If
          upgrading across multiple versions, or in case of any problems, check
          against the full list of Impala reserved words. 
If the cluster uses
            Hive, validate the Hive Metastore Schema:
In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, Go to the Hive
              service.
Select
                  Actions > Validate
                  Hive Metastore Schema.
Fix any reported errors.
Select
                  Actions > Validate
                  Hive Metastore Schema again to
              ensure that the schema is now valid.


Run the Security Inspector and fix any reported errors. Go to Administration > Security > Security Inspector. 

Log in to any cluster node as the hdfs user, run the following
          commands, and correct any reported errors: hdfs fsck / -includeSnapshots -showprogress
noteThe fsck command might take 10 minutes or more to complete,
            depending on the number of files in your cluster.
hdfs dfsadmin -report See HDFS Commands Guide in the Apache Hadoop
          documentation. 
Log in to any DataNode as the hbase user, run the
          following command, and correct any reported errors:
          hbase hbck 
If the cluster uses Kudu, log in to any cluster host and run the
            ksck command as the kudu user
            (sudo -u kudu). If the cluster is Kerberized, first
            kinit as kudu then run the
          command:
            kudu cluster ksck <master_addresses>For
            the full syntax of this command, see Checking Cluster Health with
                ksck.
If your cluster
          uses Impala and Llama, this role has been deprecated as of CDH 5.9 and you must
          remove the role from the Impala service before starting the upgrade. If you do not remove
          this role, the upgrade wizard will halt the upgrade. To determine if Impala uses Llama: 
Go to the Impala service.
Select the Instances tab.
Examine the list of roles in the Role Type column. If Llama
                appears, the Impala service is using Llama. 
To remove the Llama role: 
Go to the Impala service and select Actions > Disable YARN and Impala Integrated Resource Management.The Disable YARN and Impala Integrated Resource
                    Management wizard displays.

Click Continue.The Disable YARN and Impala
                    Integrated Resource Management Command page displays the progress of
                  the commands to disable the role.

When the commands have completed, click Finish.


If your cluster uses the
            Ozone technical preview, you must stop and delete this
          service before upgrading the cluster. 
If your cluster uses
            Kafka, you must explicitly set the Kafka protocol version to
          match what's being used currently among the brokers and clients. Update
            kafka.properties on all brokers as follows:
Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
Choose the Kafka service.
Click Configuration.
Use the Search field to find the Kafka Broker Advanced Configuration
                Snippet (Safety Valve) for kafka.properties configuration property.
Add the following properties to the snippet:
inter.broker.protocol.version = [***CURRENT KAFKA
                      VERSION***]
log.message.format.version = [***CURRENT KAFKA
                      VERSION***]
Replace [***CURRENT KAFKA VERSION***] with the version of
              Apache Kafka currently being used. See Cloudera Runtime component versions  for the
              Apache Kafka versions shipped with Cloudera Runtime. Make sure you enter full Apache
              Kafka version numbers with three values, such as 0.10.0. Otherwise, you will see an
              error message similar to the
              following:2018-06-14 14:25:47,818 FATAL kafka.Kafka$:
java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Version `0.10` is not a valid version
        at kafka.api.ApiVersion$$anonfun$apply$1.apply(ApiVersion.scala:72)
        at kafka.api.ApiVersion$$anonfun$apply$1.apply(ApiVersion.scala:72)
        at scala.collection.MapLike$class.getOrElse(MapLike.scala:128)

If your cluster uses Streams
            Replication Manager and you configured the Log Format
          property, you must take note of your configuration. The value set for Log
            Format is cleared during the upgrade and must be manually reconfigured
          following the upgrade.
 The following services are no longer
          supported as of CDP Private Cloud Base: 
Accumulo
Sqoop 2
MapReduce 1
Record Service
You must stop and delete these services before upgrading a cluster.
Open the Cloudera Manager Admin console and collect the following information about your environment:
The version of Cloudera Manager. Go to Support > About.
The version of the JDK deployed. Go to Support > About.
The version of CDH or Cloudera Runtime and whether the cluster was installed using
              parcels or packages. It is displayed next to the cluster name on the
                Home page. 
The services enabled in your cluster.  Go to Clusters > Cluster name.  

Back up Cloudera Manager before beginning the upgrade. See Step 2: Backing Up Cloudera Manager 7.



