Upgrading Cloudera Manager 7Cloudera Docs
Upgrading Cloudera Manager 7
Steps to upgrade Cloudera Manager.



Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.

noteTo upgrade to Cloudera Manager or CDH 5.x or 6.x,
          do not use the instructions on this page. See the Cloudera Enterprise Upgrade
          Guide.

These topics describes how to upgrade Cloudera Manager  to a higher
      version of Cloudera Manager 7.1 and higher, including major, minor, and
      maintenance releases. The upgrade procedures use operating system
      command-line package commands to upgrade Cloudera Manager, and then
      complete the upgrade using Cloudera Manager. 
When you upgrade Cloudera Manager, you use RPM-based package commands to
      upgrade the software on the Cloudera Manager server host and then Cloudera
      Manager manages upgrading the Cloudera Manager Agents on the remaining
      managed hosts. Cloudera Manager can also automatically install some
      versions of the required JDK on the managed hosts. 
Upgrades are not supported between all versions of Cloudera Manager, CDH,
      or Cloudera Runtime. See Supported Upgrade Paths.
Cloudera Navigator is also upgraded when you upgrade Cloudera
      Manager 5.x or 6.x. Cloudera Navigator has been replaced by Apache Atlas
      as of Cloudera Runtime 7.0.3. If you are using Cloudera Manager 7.0.3 or
      higher to manage CDH clusters, those clusters can continue using Cloudera
      Navigator.
The Cloudera Manager upgrade process does the following: 
Upgrades the database schema to reflect the current version.
Upgrades the Cloudera Manager Server and all supporting
          services.
Upgrades the Cloudera Manager agents on all hosts.
Redeploys client configurations to ensure that client services have
          the most current configuration.
Upgrades Cloudera Navigator (for upgrades to Cloudera Manager 7.1,
          you can transition Cloudera Navigator to Apache Atlas).


To upgrade Cloudera Manager, you perform the following tasks: 
Back up the Cloudera Manager server databases, working directories,
          and several other entities. These backups can be used to restore your
          Cloudera Manager deployment if there are problems during the upgrade. 
Upgrade the Cloudera Manager server software on the Cloudera Manager
          host using package commands from the command line (for example,
            yum on RHEL systems). Cloudera Manager automates
          much of this process and is recommend for upgrading and managing your
          CDH/Cloudera Runtime clusters. 
Upgrade the Cloudera Manager agent software on all cluster hosts.
          The Cloudera Manager upgrade wizard can upgrade the agent software
          (and, optionally, the JDK), or you can install the agent and JDK
          software manually. The CDH or Cloudera Runtime software is not
          upgraded during this process. 

Upgrading Cloudera Manager does not upgrade CDH/Cloudera Runtime
      clusters. See Upgrading a Cloudera Runtime Cluster for upgrade
      procedures.


Step 1: Getting Started Upgrading Cloudera Manager 7Step 2: Backing Up Cloudera Manager 7Cloudera recommends that you backup Cloudera Manager before     upgrading. Step 3: Upgrading the Cloudera Manager ServerStep 4: Upgrading the Cloudera Manager AgentsStep 5: After You Upgrade Cloudera ManagerTroubleshooting a Cloudera Manager UpgradeReverting a Failed Cloudera Manager Upgrade