Step 7: Run the Upgrade Cluster WizardCloudera Docs
Step 7: Run the Upgrade Cluster
    Wizard
The Upgrade Wizard manages the upgrade of your Cloudera Runtime
    software. The Upgrade Wizard is not used for upgrades to Service Packs or
    Hotfixes.  




Loading Filters ...

 
7.0.3 7.1.1 7.1.2 7.1.3 7.1.4
          7.2.4 7.3.1 7.4.4 7.5.1 7.6.1 7.6.7 7.7.1
          7.7.3


7.1.8 7.1.7.1000 7.1.7 7.1.6 7.1.5
          7.1.4 7.1.3 7.1.2 7.1.1
7.1.7.2000
7.7.3 7.7.1 7.6.7 7.6.1
          7.5.1 7.4.4 7.4.3 7.3.1 7.2.4 7.1.4 7.1.3 7.1.2
          7.1.1


importantYou have selected an upgrade to Cloudera Runtime Service Pack 1
        (7.1.7.1000). The upgrade process for this does not use the Upgrade Wizard if and only if
        the current Cluster is it's own GA release. Skip the steps on this page and continue with
        the steps in following document: Upgrading to a Service Pack.

noteNot all combinations of Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime are
        supported. Ensure that the version of Cloudera Manager you are using
      supports the version of Cloudera Runtime you have selected. See Cloudera Manager support for Cloudera Runtime, CDH and CDP Private Cloud Experiences
      
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.

Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. 
Ensure that you have completed the steps to add the Parcel URL in
        Cloudera Manager. See Step 5: Access Parcels.
Ensure that all services in the cluster that are being upgraded are
        running and in good health.
Click the Actions menu and select Upgrade
          Cluster. The Getting Started
          screen of the Upgrade Wizard displays. 
Click the Upgrade to Version: drop-down and
        select the version of Cloudera Runtime for your upgrade.The wizard
          now runs several checks to make sure that your cluster is ready for
          upgrade. You must resolve any reported issues before continuing.
        

The Install Services section displays any
          additional services that you need to install to upgrade your
          cluster.
If you are upgrading a cluster that has the Hive service, you will be
          prompted to add the Tez, Zookeeper, Hive on Tez, and YARN QueueManager
          services. warningWhen you add
              Hive-on-Tez service, the Assign
              Roles page displays. You must ensure that the number
            of HiveServer2 roles present in the Hive
            service before the upgrade are included when the Assign Roles page
            displays. (You can verify this by opening the Cloudera Manager Admin
            Console Home page in a new browser tab, and going to the
              Instances tab in the Hive service.) If
              the number of HiveServer2 roles is not the
              same, the cluster upgrade will fail and the cluster will be
              unusable. If your upgrade fails, please contact Cloudera
            Support. You must also select the same hosts for the HiveServer2
              roles that were used before the upgrade. If you choose other hosts
              you must regenerate the keytabs for those hosts. See  Managing Kerberos credentials
                using Cloudera Manager.

The Inspector Checks section displays sever
        inspectors you must run before continuing. If these inspectors report
        errors, you must resolve those before continuing. 
Click the Show Inspector Results button to
            see details of the inspection. 
Click the Run Again button to verify that
            you have resolved the issue. 
If you are confident that the errors are not critical, select
              Skip this step. I understand the risks..
          
The Inspector Checks section includes the
          following inspectors:
Host Inspector
Service InspectornoteIf the Hive service is present in the
                cluster, the  Inspector Checks include a
                  Validate Hive Metastore schema step.
                This check may return a "green" result but the validation may
                actually contain failures tagged with the
                  WARN label. You should look through the
                inspector results for Hive and correct any failures before
                continuing with the upgrade.
Run these inspectors and correct any reported errors
          before continuing.
The Database Backup section asks you to verify
        that you have completed the necessary backups. Select Yes, I
          have performed these steps.
Click Continue. (The
          Continue button remains greyed out until all
        upgrades steps are complete and all warnings have been
        acknowledged.)
Click Continue again to shut down the cluster
        and begin the upgrade. The Upgrade Cluster Command screen opens and
          displays the progress of the upgrade. 
When the Upgrade steps are complete, click
          Continue.The Summary
          page opens and displays any additional steps you need to complete the
          upgrade.
Click Continue.


Parent topic: Upgrading a Cloudera Runtime Cluster