Upgrading the JDKCloudera Docs
Upgrading the JDK




Cloudera Manager, Cloudera Runtime, and CDH require a supported version
      of the Java Development Kit (JDK) to be installed on all hosts. For
      details, see CDP Java Requirements.


Loading
        Filters ...


warning

If you are upgrading from a lower major version of
          the JDK to JDK 1.8 or from JDK 1.6 to JDK 1.7, and you are using
          AES-256 bit encryption, you must install new encryption policy files.
          (In a Cloudera Manager deployment, you automatically install the
          policy files; for unmanaged deployments, install them manually.) See
            Using AES-256 Encryption. This step
            is not required when using JDK 1.8.0_162 or greater. JDK 1.8.0_162
            enables unlimited strength encryption by default.You must
            also ensure that the Java Truststores are retained during the
            upgrade. (Cloudera recommends the following for keystores and
            truststores for Cloudera Manager clusters: 

Create a separate keystore for each host. Each keystore should
                have a name that helps identify it as to the type of host—server
                or agent, for example. The keystore contains the private key and
                should be password protected. 
Create a single truststore that can be used by the entire
                cluster. This truststore contains the root CA and intermediate
                CAs used to authenticate certificates presented during TLS/SSL
                handshake. The truststore does not need to be password
                protected. (See Understanding Keystores and
                  Truststores  to Truststore for more information about
                the truststore for TLS/SSL and Cloudera clusters.)




There are several procedures you can use to upgrade the JDK:
Installing Java
            During an UpgradeIf you are upgrading to
            Cloudera Manager 6.0.0 or higher, you can manually install JDK 1.8
            on the Cloudera Manager server host, and then, as part of the
            Cloudera Manager upgrade process, you can specify that Cloudera
            Manager upgrade the JDK on the remaining hosts. noteCloudera
            Manager only installs Oracle JDK. You can upgrade to OpenJDK using
            these steps. 
Manually Installing Oracle JDK 1.8
You can manually install JDK 1.8 on all managed
            hosts. If you are upgrading to any version of Cloudera Manager 5.x,
            you must use this procedure. Continue with the steps in the next
            section. 
Manually Migrating to OpenJDK



Using AES-256 EncryptionConfiguring a Custom Java Home LocationTuning JVM Garbage Collection
Manually Installing Oracle JDK 1.8

importantManual upgrade of Oracle JDK 1.8 requires down time
        to stop and restart your cluster.
You can manually install Oracle JDK 1.8 on all managed hosts. If you
        are upgrading to any version of Cloudera Manager 5.x, you must use the
        following procedure:


Download the .tar.gz file for one of the 64-bit
            versions of Oracle JDK 1.8 from Java SE 8 Downloads. (This
            link is correct at the time of writing, but can change.)
Perform the following steps on all hosts that you are upgrading: 
Log in to the host as root using
                  ssh. 
Copy the downloaded .tar.gz file to the
                host.
Extract the JDK to the folder /usr/java/jdk-version. For
                example:tar xvfz /path/to/jdk-8u<update_version>-linux-x64.tar.gz -C /usr/java/

If you have configured TLS for Cloudera Manager (see Encrypting Data in Transit),
            copy the jssecacerts file from the previous JDK
            installation to the new JDK installation. This step is not
              required when using JDK 1.8.0_162 or greater. JDK 1.8.0_162
              enables unlimited strength encryption by default.
For
              example:cp previous_java_home/jre/lib/security/jssecacerts new_java_home/jre/lib/security(Substitute
                previous_java_home and
                new_java_home with the paths to the JDK
              installations.)
Configure the location of the JDK on cluster hosts. 
Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
In the main navigation bar, click the Hosts tab. If you
                are configuring the JDK location on a specific host only, click
                the link for that host.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select
                    Category > Advanced. 
Set the Java Home Directory property to the custom
                location.
Click Save Changes.

On the Cloudera Manager Server host only (not required for other hosts):
Open the file
                  /etc/default/cloudera-scm-server in a text
                editor.
Edit the line that begins with export
                  JAVA_HOME (if this line does not exist, add it) and
                change the path to the path of the new JDK (you can find the
                path under /usr/java). For example: (RHEL and SLES)
                  export JAVA_HOME="/usr/java/jdk1.8.0_141-cloudera"
For example: (Ubuntu)
                  export JAVA_HOME="/usr/lib/jvm/java-8-oracle-cloudera"
Save the file.
Restart the Cloudera Manager
        Server.sudo systemctl restart cloudera-scm-server


 Restart the Cloudera Management
          Service. 
Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
Select
                Clusters > Cloudera
                Management Service.
Select
                Actions > Restart.


Restart all clusters:
On the
                    Home > Status
                tab, click the Options menu to the right of the cluster name and
                select Restart.
Click Restart that appears in the next screen to
                confirm. If you have enabled high availability for
                  HDFS, you can choose Rolling
                    Restart instead to minimize cluster
                downtime. The Command Details window shows the progress
                of stopping services. When All services successfully
                    started appears, the task is complete and you can close
                  the Command Details window.

Delete the files from your previous Java installation. If you do not delete these files, Cloudera Manager
              and other components may continue to use the old version of the
              JDK.





OpenJDK

You must install a supported version of OpenJDK. If your deployment uses a version of
        OpenJDK lower than 1.8.0_232, see TLS Protocol Error with OpenJDK.importantFor OpenJDK 8u241 and higher versions running on Kerberized clusters, you
          must disable referrals: 
Cloudera Manager 7.1.1 or higher:
Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
Go to Administration > Settings.
Select the Advanced category.
Locate the JVM Arguments for Java-based services
                  parameter and enter the
                  following:-Dsun.security.krb5.disableReferrals=true
Restart any stale services.

Cloudera Manager 7.0.3 or lower:
Edit the Java Security file on all hosts by adding or changing the following
                  configuration :
sun.security.krb5.disableReferrals=trueIf
                  the configuration already exists and is set to false, change it
                  to true.
Restart the cluster.

For more information, see the KB article.


Manually Installing OpenJDK

Before installing or upgrading Cloudera Manager and zCDH/Cloudera Runtime, perform the steps in this
          section to install OpenJDK on all hosts in your cluster(s).
When you install Cloudera Enterprise, Cloudera Manager includes an
          option to install Oracle JDK. De-select this option. 
noteIf you intend to enable Auto TLS, note the following:
            You can specify a PEM file containing trusted CA certificates to
            be imported into the Auto-TLS truststore. If you want to use the
            certificates in the cacerts truststore that comes with OpenJDK, you
            must convert the truststore to PEM format first. However, OpenJDK
            ships with some intermediate certificates that cannot be imported
            into the Auto-TLS truststore. You must remove these certificates
            from the PEM file before importing the PEM file into the Auto-TLS
            truststore. This is not required when upgrading to OpenJDK from a
            cluster where Auto-TLS has already been enabled.

Log in to each host and run the following command:
RHEL
OpenJDK
                8sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk-develOpenJDK
              11sudo yum install java-11-openjdk
Ubuntu
OpenJDK
                8sudo apt-get install openjdk-8-jdkOpenJDK
              11sudo apt install openjdk-11-jdk
SLES
OpenJDK
                8sudo zypper install java-1_8_0-openjdk-develOpenJDK
              11zypper install java-11-openjdk

If you are using the SLES operating system, Cloudera Manager needs
            an additional configuration so that the JDK can be located: 
Log in to the Cloudera Manager server host.
Open the following file in a text editor:
                /etc/default/cloudera-scm-server
Add the following line:
                export JAVA_HOME=path to the Java installation directory For
                example:export JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib64/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk-1.8.0
Save the file.
Restart the Cloudera Manager
        Server.sudo systemctl restart cloudera-scm-server






Manually Migrating to OpenJDK

If you have Oracle JDK 1.7, Oracle JDK 1.8, or OpenJDK 8 installed on the hosts managed
          by Cloudera Manager, use the steps in this section to transition your deployment to use
            OpenJDK. The
          steps below require you to restart all clusters, which will cause downtime as the hosts
          restart. If your clusters have enabled high availability for HDFS, you can use a Rolling Restart to restart
          the clusters without downtime. Note that until the rolling restart completes, some of the
          hosts in your cluster will still be using the Oracle JDK. If you do not want a temporarily
          mixed environment, you can stop the cluster before performing the steps in this section to
          transition the JDK.
OpenJDK 11 is supported as of Cloudera
          Manager and CDH 6.3. Note the following:
You must upgrade to Cloudera Manager 6.3 or higher,
                before upgrading to OpenJDK 11.
The package names used when installing the OpenJDK 11 are
              different and are noted in the steps below.
The path for the default truststore has changed from (OpenJDK 8)
                jre/lib/security/cacerts to (OpenJDK 11)
                lib/security/cacerts

See the following blog post for general information about
              migrating to Java 11: All You Need to Know For
                Migrating To Java 11.



Find out the package name of your currently installed JDK by
              running the following commands. The grep commands attempt to
              locate the installed JDK. If the JDK package is not returned, try
              looking for the string sdk. 
RHEL
Oracle JDK
                    8yum list installed |grep oracle
OpenJDK
                    8yum list installed |grep openjdk
Ubuntu
Oracle JDK
                    8apt list --installed | grep oracle
OpenJDK
                    8apt list --installed | grep openjdk
SLES
Oracle JDK
                    8zypper search --installed-only |grep oracle
OpenJDK
                    8zypper search --installed-only |grep openjdk
 The command will return values similar to the following
              example::
              oracle-j2sdk1.7.x86_64              1.7.0+update67-1           java-1.8.0-openjdk-develThe
              Oracle JDK package name in the above example is:
                oracle-j2sdk1.7.x86_64. The OpenJDK package is
                java-1.8.0-openjdk-devel.
Log in to each host managed by Cloudera Manager (including the
              Cloudera Manager server host) and run the following command to
              install OpenJDK:
RHEL
OpenJDK
                8sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk-develOpenJDK
              11sudo yum install java-11-openjdk
Ubuntu
OpenJDK
                8sudo apt-get install openjdk-8-jdkOpenJDK
              11sudo apt install openjdk-11-jdk
SLES
OpenJDK
                8sudo zypper install java-1_8_0-openjdk-develOpenJDK
              11zypper install java-11-openjdk

(This step is required for Oracle JDK 8 or Open JDK 8 only) On
              the Cloudera Manager Server host only (not required for other hosts):
Open the file
                    /etc/default/cloudera-scm-server in a text
                  editor.
Edit the line that begins with export
                    JAVA_HOME (if this line does not exist, add it) and
                  change the path to the path of the new JDK (the JDK is usually
                  installed in /usr/lib/jvm)(or
                      /usr/lib64/jvm on SLES 12), but the
                  path may differ depending on how the JDK was installed).
                    For example:

RHEL 7, 8

export JAVA_HOME="/usr/lib/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk"

Ubuntu

export JAVA_HOME="/usr/lib/jvm/openjdk-8-jdk"

SLES

export JAVA_HOME="/usr/lib64/jvm/java-1.8.0-openjdk"



Save the file.
Restart the Cloudera Manager
        Server.sudo systemctl restart cloudera-scm-server


Tune the JDK (OpenJDK 11 only.)OpenJDK 11 uses new defaults for garbage
                collection and other Java options specified when launching Java
                processes. Due to these changes you may need to tune the garbage
                collection by adjusting the Java options used to run cluster
                services, which are configured separately for each service using
                the service's configuration parameters. To locate the correct
                parameter, log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to
                the cluster and service you want to configure and search for
                "Java Configuration Options". When using OpenJDK 11, Cloudera Manager and most services use
                G1GC as the default method of garbage collection. Java 8 used
                "ConcurrentMarkSweep" (CMS) for garbage collection. When using
                G1GC, the pauses for garbage collection are shorter, so
                components will usually be more responsive, but they are more
                sensitive to JVMs with overcommitted memory usage. See Tuning JVM Garbage Collection.
              
 Restart the Cloudera Management
          Service. 
Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
Select
                Clusters > Cloudera
                Management Service.
Select
                Actions > Restart.


Restart all clusters:
On the
                      Home > Status
                  tab, click  to
                  the right of the cluster name and select either
                    Restart or Rolling
                    Restart. Selecting Rolling
                      Restart minimizes cluster downtime and
                  is available only If you have enabled Auto TLS. 
Click Restart or Rolling
                    Restart that appears in the next screen to
                  confirm. The Command Details window shows the progress
                  of stopping services. When All services successfully
                      started appears, the task is complete and you can
                    close the Command Details window.

Remove the JDK:
Perform the following steps on all hosts managed by Cloudera Manager:
Run the following command to remove the JDK, using the
                      package names from Step 1: (If you do not delete these files, Cloudera Manager
              and other components may continue to use the old version of the
              JDK.)
RHEL

yum remove <JDK package name>

Ubuntu

apt-get remove <JDK package name>

SLES

zypper rm <JDK package name>


Confirm that the package has been removed: 
RHEL

yum list installed |grep -i oracle

Ubuntu

apt list --installed | grep -i oracle

SLES

zypper search --installed-only |grep -i oracle









