Linux Container ExecutorCloudera Docs
Linux Container Executor
A setuid binary called container-executor is part of the hadoop-yarn package and is installed in /usr/lib/hadoop-yarn/bin/container-executor.
This
        container-executor program, which is used
      on YARN only and supported on GNU/Linux only, runs the containers as the user who submitted
      the application. It requires all user accounts to be created on the cluster hosts where the
      containers are launched. It uses a setuid executable that is included in the Hadoop
      distribution. The NodeManager uses this executable to launch and stop containers. The setuid
      executable switches to the user who has submitted the application and launches or stops the
      containers. For maximum security, this executor sets up restricted permissions and user/group
      ownership of local files and directories used by the containers such as the shared objects,
      jars, intermediate files, and log files. As a result, only the application owner and
      NodeManager can access any of the local files/directories including those localized as part of
      the distributed cache.

Parcel Deployments

In a parcel deployment the container-executor file is
        located inside the parcel at
          /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib/hadoop-yarn/bin/container-executor.
        For the /usr/lib mount point, setuid should not be a
        problem. However, the parcel could easily be located on a different
        mount point. If you are using a parcel, make sure the mount point for
        the parcel directory is without the nosuid option.
The container-executor program must have a very
        specific set of permissions and ownership to function correctly. In
        particular, it must:

Be owned by root.
Be owned by a group that contains only the user running the YARN
        daemons.
Be setuid.
Be group readable and executable. This corresponds to the ownership
            root:yarn and the permissions
          6050.---Sr-s--- 1 root yarn 91886 2012-04-01 19:54 container-executor


importantConfiguration changes to the Linux
        container executor could result in local NodeManager directories (such
        as usercache) being left with incorrect permissions. To
        avoid this, when making changes using either Cloudera Manager or the
        command line, first manually remove the existing NodeManager local
        directories from all configured local directories
          (yarn.nodemanager.local-dirs), and let the
        NodeManager recreate the directory structure. 

