Enabling a private CDW environment in Azure Kubernetes ServiceCloudera Docs
Enabling a private CDW environment in Azure Kubernetes Service
An introduction to the terms and components involved in creating a private CDW
  environment prepares you to successfully complete the required tasks. You see a network
  configuration diagram.
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) simplifies container-based application deployment and
   management. When you create an AKS cluster, a control plane is automatically created and
   configured. The Azure platform configures the secure communication between the control plane and
   compute nodes. In a private cluster, the API server for the control plane has an internal IP
   address. The Azure nodes and the Kubernetes control plane components do not have publicly
   routable IP addresses. When you deploy a private cluster, the network traffic between your API
   server and your node pools remains only on the private network.
Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM) {version 2} enables the CDP Control Plane to communicate with the Kubernetes control plane using an inverting proxy solution. Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) can communicate with the Kubernetes control plane and the other resources, such as virtual machines deployed in your network, by using a special established channel.
   
Large enterprises have a requirement to create private CDW environments in the public cloud
   similar to the on-premises one in terms of security and networking. Generally, public access to
   your cloud environment, resources, and deployed applications is not allowed. 
A private environment has the following criteria:
Kubernetes API server for the control plane must have private API endpoints
Hue, DAS, JDBC, or ODBC applications can only be accessed through private endpoints
Egress Kubernetes traffic must be controlled using a transparent proxy
Storage, SQL database, and other resources can only be accessed through private endpoints
CDP Control Plane can only be accessed through private endpoints using Azure Private Link Service
Ability to configure a DNS zone in your environment

The following layout shows a typical network for private environments: 



Setting up the environment for private cluster deployment In Azure, you perform steps and follow links to Azure documentation to meet         prerequisties for enabling a private CDW environment.Creating and registering the Azure environment In CDP, you perform a step-by-step procedure to create the environment, and select         options for the database, virtual machines, and CCM during registration.Activating a private AKS in CDW You see how to activate a CDP environment in CDW, learn how to configure the         environmental options.Configuring a custom private DNS zoneYou learn the requirements for configuring a DNS zone for AKS. From the syntax         information, you see how to construct a CDP CLI command that configures the DNS         zone.AKS deployment configuration optionsThe list of properties and explanations of how to use them, followed by an example,   prepares you to configure a DNS zone for AKS.