Managed storage accessCloudera Docs
Managed storage access
Understanding how Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) stores data for multiple tenants and a
  high-level overview of the configuration tasks prepares you as DWAdmin to set up a RAZ-controlled
  warehouse.
The multitenant storage technique in CDW requires a separate Database Catalog plus at least one
   Virtual Warehouse per tenant.
You configure a dedicated tenant storage role to give only the tenant-specific default database
   catalog instance and its associated virtual warehouse data access to both of the following
    buckets.
The tenant storage location
Potentially shared Storage Location Base
The SDX Data Lake bucket

If the access token for a role is leaked, the data of others is not compromised; only one
   tenant’s own, and shared, data is vulnerable. A managed identity IDBroker approach to accessing
   the Virtual Warehouse is shown in the following graphic:



Using a Ranger Remote Authorization (RAZ)-enabled environment, you can control access to data
   based on user roles and classifications. As a CDP Admin, you can apply Ranger fine-grained access
   control policies to cloud storage.
The following diagram shows the high-level steps for configuring RAZ-enabled storage: 





After you obtain the entitlements required for this feature CDW_ALLOW_MULTI_DEFAULT_DBC and
   CDW_STORAGE_ROLES, you can configure storage as shown in this diagram:

In CDP, register an environment that enables RAZ and uses the SDX Data Lake.
Activate the environment in CDW.
Manually create a tenant storage location(s), or use existing ones, for access by the tenant
    storage role.
In Azure, create an Azure managed identity for the tenant.
Assign the tenant specific Azure managed identity as a Storage Blob Data Owner role to the
    tenant-specific container; assign the tenant specific Azure managed identity as a Storage Blob
    Data Owner role to Storage Location Base.
In CDP Management Console, create an UMS group for this tenant. 
Add the UMS machine user (created when you activated the CDW environment) to the UMS
    group.
Add the id broker mapping to the environment.

      Sync user group changes for the RAZ-enabled environment with FreeIPA.
     
 Create a separate Database Catalog with a unique managed identity created in the
    step above. 
 Create a tenant-specific Virtual Warehouse based on the Database Catalog, SDX
    Data Lake, and RAZ-enabled environment. 

Create a tenant-specific Hive or Impala database that points to tenant storage locations. 
As the metadata is shared across all tenants, Ranger grants access to tenant data via a
     group at the database level.


For each tenant, repeat the actions above, starting from the step after
       activating the environment for CDW.


The managed identity accesses a tenant specific location and SDX Data Lake shared Storage
   Location Base. The Storage Location Base contains shared data, stores the Directed Acyclic Graph
   (DAG) data used by the Database Catalog, and provides integration with Cloudera Workload XM. WXM
   writes Impala query data to the shared Storage Location Base.
You need the UMS group to add the IDBroker mapping, as a single UMS machine user
   cannot have multiple ID broker mappings to different managed identities.
The following topics describe step-by-step how to set up your Database Catalog, and Virtual
   Warehouse for storing RAZ-enabled data.

Setting up managed storage accessYou learn the consequences of setting up RAZ control, which cannot be removed, and         requirements you must meet to enable managed storage access.