Kubenet networking for Azure environments in Cloudera Data Warehouse serviceCloudera Docs
Kubenet networking for Azure environments in Cloudera Data Warehouse service
Kubenet networking is a software-defined layer of network abstraction that is used to
    run multiple separate, discrete virtualized network layers over the Azure virtual network. You
    use kubenet networking to increase the number of IP addresses available to support nodes in
    your CDW cluster on Azure.
warningAKS doesn't support two kubenet AKS instances running on same subnet.
Default CDW networking
By default, CDW uses Azure Container Networking Interface (CNI). With
        Azure CNI, every pod gets an IP address from the node subnet and is accessed directly. Each
        IP address must be unique across your network space, and you must plan for them in advance
        of deploying your CDW cluster. Each node has a configuration parameter for the maximum
        number of pods that it can support. The equivalent number of IP addresses per executor node
        is reserved up front for it. This requires advanced planning and it can often lead to IP
        address exhaustion. As an alternative, you must rebuild the cluster in large subnets so your
        cluster can meet your applications' demands. You can configure the maximum pods that are
        deployable to an executor node when you create the cluster or when you create new executor
        node pools. However, if you do not specify the maximum number of pods for the
          maxPods property when you create new executor node pools, by default each
        executor node gets 30 pods (with one IP address per pod).

About using the kubenet networking feature
To avoid IP address exhaustion, you can enable the kubenet networking feature when you
        activate an Azure environment to use with CDW. For a full description of kubenet networking
        in AKS, see the Microsoft documentation.
importantThird-party overlay networking solutions like Weaveworks Weave Net and
        Project Calico are not supported in Microsoft Azure. Cloudera strongly recommends that you
        do not deploy these third-party overlay networking solutions.

How kubenet compares to Azure CNI
The following calculations compare kubenet to Azure CNI:

kubenet: A simple /24 IP address range can support up to 251 executor nodes in the
          cluster. Keep in mind that Azure virtual network subnet reserves the first three IP
          addresses for management operations. 251 executor nodes can support up to 27,610 pods when
          you use a default maximum of 110 pods per executor node.
Azure CNI: The same basic /24 IP address subnet range can only support a maximum
          of 8 executor nodes in the cluster. 8 executor nodes can only support up to 240 pods with
          a default maximum of 30 pods per executor node.


Guidelines for choosing kubenet networking in CDW
The following guidelines help you to decide whether to enable kubenet networking when you
        are activating Azure environments for CDW:

Use kubenet networking when the following conditions are true for your CDW
            deployment:

You have a limited IP address space.
Most of the pod communication is within the cluster.
You do not need advanced AKS features such as virtual executor nodes or to secure
              traffic between pods with network policies. See Microsoft documentation for more information
              on Azure network policies.


Do not use the kubenet networking (use Azure CNI) when the following is true for your
            CDW deployment:

You have adequate IP addresses available.
Most of the pod communication is to resources outside of the cluster.
You do not want to manage User Defined Routing (UDR) for connectivity between pods
              across executor nodes, which is required for kubenet.
You do not need advanced AKS features as described above.




Limitations of kubenet networking in CDW on Azure environments
If you choose kubenet networking when you activate Azure environments for CDW, the
        following limitations exist:

Permissions must be assigned before cluster creation. Ensure that you are using a service
       principal with write permissions on your customer subnet and custom route table.
Managed identities are not supported with custom route tables in kubenet.
A custom route table must be associated to the subnet before you create the AKS
         cluster. Afterwards, this route table cannot be updated. All routing rules must be added or
       removed from the initial route table before you create the AKS cluster.
All subnets within an AKS virtual network must use the same route table.
Every AKS cluster must use a unique route table. You cannot re-use a route table with
         multiple clusters.

Node count limits
The following executor node count limits apply to whether you use kubenet networking or
        not:

With kubenet networking, you can have up to 400 executor nodes/AKS cluster.
Without kubenet networking, which uses Azure CNI, you can have up to 1,000
            executor nodes/AKS cluster.

importantCloudera recommends that you use kubenet networking if you are
        specifically concerned about IP address exhaustion. If that is not an issue for your
        deployment of CDW, Cloudera recommends not using kubenet networking. Instead, use the
        default Azure CNI networking interface.


Enabling kubenet networking in Azure environmentsIf you are experiencing IP address exhaustion for your Azure environment in Cloudera     Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud, you can enable a kubenet network for the environment. 