Granting remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Azure Kubernetes ServiceCloudera Docs
Granting remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Azure Kubernetes Service
You can remotely access Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) clusters for troubleshooting,
        log collection, and maintenance purposes using SSH. To do that, you must add the Azure
        Active Directory (AD) object ID in the CDW environment Kubeconfig.

Required Role: DWAdmin




You must have an active CDW environment to grant your users remote
                        access to the Kubernetes
                        cluster
Contact your Azure account administrator to obtain the Azure AD
                        object
                        ID


Obtaining the Azure AD object ID using Azure CLI
You can obtain the object ID by running the following
                command:az ad group list --filter "displayname eq '[***GROUP-NAME***]'" -o table
This lists all the existing groups within the directory.
Obtaining the Azure AD object ID from the Azure portal


Sign in to the Azure portal using a Global administrator account
                        for the directory.
Search for and select Azure Active
                            Directory.
On the Active Directory page, select
                            Groups and click
                        Overview.
Note the Object ID from the Group
                            Overview page.






In the Data Warehouse service, expand the Environments
                    column by clicking the More… menu on the left side of the
                    page.

In the Environments column, click the search icon and
                    locate the environment for which you want to grant access to AKS.

Click the options menu and select Show Kubeconfig.

Enter the Azure AD object ID in the Enter group ID text
                    box.

Click GRANT ACCESS to save your changes.

Access the Virtual Machines remotely using Azure CLI. When you enter a kubectl
            command, such as, kubectl get pods Azure CLI, you will see the
            following
                message:To sign in, use a web browser to open the page https://microsoft.com/devicelogin and enter the code ****** to authenticate.
Open a web browser and go to https://microsoft.com/devicelogin.
Enter the code on the Enter code page and click
                        Next.
On the Pick an account page, select the account for signing
                    into the AKS AAD Client.

Upon successful login, you get the following message:


Revoking remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Azure Kubernetes ServiceYou can revoke remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)         by removing the Azure AD object ID from the CDW environment Kubeconfig.