Setting up the environment for private cluster deploymentCloudera Docs
Setting up the environment for private cluster deployment
 In Azure, you perform steps and follow links to Azure documentation to meet
        prerequisties for enabling a private CDW environment.

In the Microsoft Azure portal, create a resource group for CDP.

The resource group provides a management layer that enables you to create,
                        update, and delete resources in your Azure account.


(Optional)Create a private storage account and
                        network access rules to block all
                    internet traffic.

The private endpoints allow clients on a virtual network (VNET) to securely
                        access data over a Private Link.


Create a VNet and add a subnet. 

VNet is the fundamental building block for your private network in Azure. It
                        enables Azure resources, such as Azure Virtual Machines, to securely
                        communicate with each other and with the internet.


Add a VNet rule to the backend
                    Postgres database for your datalake. 

(Optional) Configure the CDP Control Plane Private Link service.

To ensure that all egress traffic including CDP Control Plane traffic travels
                        only through private networks, you must configure Cluster Connectivity
                        Manager (CCM) (v2) and CDP Control Plane private endpoints properly for the
                        selected VNet. 
Contact your Cloudera account representative to register the CDP Control
                        Plane Private Link service endpoints in your Azure VNet.


Configure custom DNS on the VNet to resolve Azure Private DNS zones.

To resolve private endpoint DNS records, the VNet DNS servers must be capable
                        of resolving Azure DNS records.


Disable network endpoint policies for private
                        endpoints and Azure Private Link Service.

Configure the following firewall exceptions for CDW and AKS on the egress
                    firewall, and for storage account endpoints, if the account is not Private-Link
                    enable: Outbound network access
                            destinations and Restrict egress traffic in AKS


Configure user-defined routing (UDR)
                    on the VNet to forward all traffic to an egress firewall and link it to the
                    subnet.


Parent topic: Enabling a private CDW environment in Azure Kubernetes Service