Service accountCloudera Docs
Service account
Cloud functions require a service account to use during runtime, granting the function
    permissions to use other Google Cloud Platform (GCP) services. There are some permissions
    commonly required for DataFlow Functions.
Creating/adding service account
When configuring your Cloud function:


Locate the Runtime service account section of the
              Runtime, build, connections and security settings.


If you already have a service account for this purpose, you may select it
            here. Otherwise, select Create new service account. 


Specify the account name and ID.


Click Create service account.
You will need to add permissions to the Service Account separately.


When configuring Secrets accessible to the Cloud function, the console
        automatically prompts you to grant the necessary permissions to the Runtime Service Account.
        For more information on this, see the Google Cloud Secret Manager section in
          Parameters.

Adding additional role to service account
When providing custom extensions or resources from a Cloud Storage bucket, you
        need to add an additional role to the Service Account:


Navigate to the IAM & Admin GCP service, and
            select Roles on the left sidebar.


Click Create role.


Name the role.


Click Add permissions.


In the Filter section, add storage.buckets.get
            for Enter property name or value.


Click Add.


Do the same for the storage.buckets.list permission.


Click Create.


Select IAM from the left sidebar.


Locate your Cloud function's Runtime Service Account, and click the
              Edit pencil icon on the far right.


In the Role drop-down menu, select Custom >  your newly created Role on the right side.


Click Save. 


For additional information, see Cloud Storage.
Your Service Account now allows your Cloud function to list and get objects from
        buckets.

Granting service account access to specific bucket
You need to grant your Service Account access to the specific bucket configured in the
          CLOUD_STORAGE_BUCKET environment variable:


Navigate to the Cloud Storage GCP service, and click
            your bucket name.


Select the Permissions tab under the bucket name.


In the Permissions section, click
              Add.


Provide the fully qualified name of the Runtime Service Account.
For example: naaf@projectname.iam.gserviceaccount.com


In Select a role, select Cloud
              Storage on the left, and Storage Object Viewer on
            the right.


Click Save.




Related informationGoogle Cloud Secret ManagerCloud storage