ParametersCloudera Docs
Parameters
The concept of parameterization is an important step in building a dataflow that you
    can run outside of the NiFi instance where it was built. NiFi allows you to define Processor and
    Controller Service properties at runtime instead of at build time by using Parameter
    Contexts.
Environment variables
Any parameter can be specified using the environment variables of the Google
        Cloud Function. When configuring the function, in the Runtime environment
          variables section of the Runtime, build, connections and security
          settings, add an environment variable with a name that matches the name of a
        parameter in your Parameter Context.

Google Cloud Secret Manager
A more secure mechanism for storing parameters is to use the Google Cloud Secret
        Manager, which is recommended for the sensitive properties of a data flow.


Navigate to the Secret Manager GCP service and click
              Create secret at the top-left.


Name the secret descriptively (this does not have to be the same name as a
            data flow Parameter), and enter the Secret value (or upload a file, which is most useful
            for mounted secrets).


Click Create secret at the bottom.


Repeat the above steps for all needed secrets.


In the Runtime, build, connections and security
              settings section of  Cloud function configuration,
            select the Security tab.


Click Reference a secret.
This allows you to select an existing Secret. The console will prompt you to grant
            permissions to use the secret to the Runtime Service Account, which you should do.


If your secret is an uploaded file, select Mounted as
              volume for the Reference method.


For parameters, select Exposed as environment variable
            as the Reference method. Here you should enter the actual data
            flow Parameter Context name in the environment variable name, since this is how
            parameters are mapped.


Optionally, select latest from the
              Version drop-down menu.
This allows the secret value to be automatically updated if the function is
            redeployed.


important
To use this capability, the Parameter Contexts used in the flow must have names that are
          compatible with Google Cloud Secret Manager names and Environment Variable names. To
          ensure that these naming conventions are followed, Parameter Contexts and Parameters
          should use names that start with a letter and consist only of letters, numbers, and the
          underscore (_) character.
For example, instead of naming a Parameter Context GCP Parameter Context, use the
          name GCP_PARAMETER_CONTEXT when building the data flow.



