Repurposing CDP Private Cloud Base Nodes for CDP Private Cloud Data Services on ECSCloudera Docs
Repurposing CDP Private Cloud Base Nodes for CDP Private Cloud Data Services on ECS
Separating compute and storage using CDP Private Cloud (PvC) Data Services provides
        cloud-native capabilities to help optimize compute resources. 

Workloads that are candidates for migration from CDP PvC Base to CDP PvC Data
                Services include CDSW, Hive, Spark on YARN, and Impala. You can identify
                underutilized nodes in CDP PvC Base, repurpose them as PvC Data Services nodes, and
                then migrate existing workloads from PvC Base to PvC Data Services.


 Review the following hardware requirements before repurposing the PvC Base nodes for
                PvC Data Services.


Check the CDP Private Cloud Data Services
                                Hardware Requirements and confirm that the nodes you
                        intend to repurpose meet the requirements. This may include new requirements
                        that necessitate added storage such as fast cache devices, increased RAM, or
                        upgraded network cards.


Ensure that your existing PvC Base cluster complies with PvC Data Services system
                                requirements. If not, you may need to upgrade your Private Cloud Base
                                cluster to a supported version. 


Ensure that your existing PvC Base cluster will still function
                        properly without the repurposed nodes. Remember that removing nodes reduces
                        overall storage and compute capacity in the PvC Base cluster.

Target existing worker nodes – avoid repurposing
                                    “master” nodes (i.e., the NameNode).


Avoid using edge nodes, or gateways.


Calculate how much storage is being removed (the
                                    combined footprint of the JBOD drives on nodes). The revised
                                    utilized capacity for HDFS, Ozone, and Kudu should generally not
                                    exceed 75% after the nodes are removed.


Review the PvC Base cluster
                                            utilization reports and ensure that the
                                    remaining compute capacity can support the remaining PvC Base
                                        workloads:

HBase, Solr, MapReduce, and NiFi workloads
                                                will remain on PvC Base. Ensure that your remaining
                                                compute capacity can support these workloads. 


Ranger, Atlas, Ozone, HMS, Zookeeper, and
                                                HDFS will also remain on PvC Base. Ensure that your
                                                remaining compute capacity can support these
                                                workloads.







Repurposing the nodes


If the high availability (HA) configuration is not changing on the
                        PvC Base cluster, you can run the following steps to repurpose nodes without
                        any downtime. 

Remove the host from
                            the PvC Base cluster. Using the Cloudera Manager Hosts Decommission
                            feature ensures that workloads are shut down gracefully on each node,
                            and no new work is accepted. 

When the target includes a HDFS Namenode role, HDFS blocks
                                        will be evicted from that host and copied to available space
                                        in the cluster. This can take some time, depending on how
                                        much data is stored and how your environment is set up. 


After removing a host from the PvC Base cluster, it is highly
                                        recommended that you treat this node according to your
                                        normal procedures for redeployed hardware. This may involve
                                        wiping drives and reimaging the operating system (OS). 


Treat the old node as a new server, commissioning it by adding it to an
                            existing PvC Data Services Cluster or including it in a new PvC Data
                            Services cluster. See Install CDP Private Cloud Data
                                    Services for more information. 





Related informationMigrating Data Science Workbench to Machine LearningMigrating Hive workloads from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Private CloudMoving Impala compute workloads from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Data Service on Private CloudRepurposing CDSW nodes for CML