Data Lake SecurityCloudera Docs
Data Lake Security

A Data Lake refers to the shared security and governance services in a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster linked to a CDP Private Cloud
            environment, and managed by Cloudera Manager. This set of shared services is also
            referred to as SDX (Shared Data eXperience). 
 CDP Private Cloud security and governance are managed by Apache Ranger and Apache
        Atlas. 
Data Lake services
Data Lake services are managed by Cloudera Manager, and can include the
                following services:


Hive MetaStore (HMS) -- table metadata


Apache Ranger -- fine-grained authorization policies, auditing


Apache Atlas -- metadata management and governance: lineage,
                        analytics, attributes


Security in all workload clusters created in an environment is managed by
                these shared security and governance services.
Links to the Atlas and Ranger web UIs are provided on each environment home
                page. A link to the Cloudera Manager instance provides access to configuration
                settings.

Apache Ranger
Apache Ranger manages access control through a user interface that ensures
                consistent policy administration in CDP clusters. 
Security administrators can define security policies at the database,
                table, column, and file levels, and can administer permissions for groups or
                individual users. Rules based on dynamic conditions such as time or geolocation can
                also be added to an existing policy rule. Ranger security zones enable you to
                organize service resources into multiple security zones.
Ranger also provides a centralized framework for collecting access audit
                history and reporting data, including filtering on various parameters.

Apache Atlas
Apache Atlas provides a set of metadata management and governance services
                that enable you to manage CDP cluster assets. 

Search and Proscriptive Lineage – facilitates pre-defined and ad hoc
                    exploration of data and metadata, while maintaining a history of data sources
                    and how specific data was generated.
Ranger plugin for metadata-driven data access control.
Flexible modeling of both business and operational data.
Data Classification – helps you understand the nature of the data
                    within Hadoop and classify it based on external and internal sources.



