Register a recipeCloudera Docs
Register a recipe
In order to use your recipe for clusters, you must first register it with the
    Management Console.
Required role: EnvironmentCreator can create a shared
      resource and then assign users to it. SharedResourceUser or Owner of the
        shared resource can use the resource.

Place your script in a network location accessible from Management Console and from the
          virtual network in which your clusters are located.

Log in to the CDP web interface.

Navigate to Shared
              Resources > Recipes and click
            Register Recipe.
Provide the following:


Parameter
Value



Name
Enter a name for your recipe.


Description
(Optional) Enter a description for your recipe.


Execution Type
Select one of the following options: 
pre-service-deployment (formerly pre-cluster-manager-start):
                        During a Data Hub, Data Lake, or environment deployment, the script will be
                        executed on every node (in the host group where you assigned the recipe)
                        before the CM server starts. 
post-cluster-manager-start: During a Data Hub or Data Lake
                        deployment, the script will be executed on every node (in the host group
                        where you assigned the recipe) after the CM server starts, but before
                        cluster installation. This option is not available for FreeIPA recipes.
post-service-deployment (formerly post-cluster-install)::
                        The script will be executed on every node (in the host group where you
                        assigned the recipe) after cluster installation on the CM server is
                        finished. 
pre-termination: The script will be executed on every node (in the
                        host group where you assigned the recipe) before cluster termination.



Script
Select one of: 
File: Point to a file on your machine that contains the
                        recipe.
Text: Paste the script.



Click Register.


When you create a Data Hub cluster, you can select a previously added recipe on the
          advanced Cluster Extensions page of the create cluster wizard. 
When you create an environment, you can select a previously added recipe on the Data
            Access and Data Lake Scaling page of the environment creation wizard, under
            Advanced Options > Cluster Extensions > Recipes.
When you create an environment, you can select a previously added FreeIPA recipe on the
            Region, Networking, and Security page of the environment creation
          wizard, under Advanced Options > Cluster
              Extensions > Recipes.
You can also attach recipes to Data Hub or Data Lake clusters when you create an
          environment/Data Lake or Data Hub through the CDP CLI.



