Preparing clusters for HDFS replication policiesCloudera Docs
Preparing clusters for HDFS replication policies
Before you create an HDFS replication policy, you must verify whether CDP Private
        Cloud Data Services Replication Manager supports the clusters for replication, ensure the
        required ports are open, and if the required CDP Private Cloud Base clusters are available
        as clusters in the Management Console. You can also enable Kerberos authentication for
        clusters supporting Kerberos.
Complete the following checklist to ensure that the
            clusters are ready to be used in an HDFS replication policy:

Have you added the required source and target clusters on the Management Console > Clusters page? 
For more information, see Adding clusters to a CDP Private Cloud Data
                        Services deployment.

important
Consider the following limitations before you add clusters:

Only users with admin and
                                    poweruser roles can add clusters to use
                                in Replication Manager.
When Auto-TLS is enabled for a cluster, you must use the
                                Cloudera Manager hostname to add a cluster.
If a Cloudera Manager instance manages multiple clusters,
                                you cannot include those clusters for replication in CDP Private
                                Cloud Data Services Replication Manager.




Are snapshots enabled in Cloudera Manager for the source cluster?

tipTo enable snapshots for an HDFS
                        directory, click Enable Snapshots for the required
                        directory on the Cloudera Manager > Clusters > <HDFS Service> > File Browser tab.


Are the following ports open and available for Replication Manager?



Port
Service
Description



7180 or 7183
Cloudera Manager Admin Console HTTP
Open on the source cluster to enable source Cloudera
                                        Manager to communicate with the target Cloudera Manager.
                                    


80 or 443
Data transfer from secondary node for AWS / ADLS
                                        Gen2
Outgoing port. Open on all the HDFS nodes for AWS and
                                        ADLS Gen2.




Do the clusters support Kerberos? 


Enable Kerberos authentication and configure additional
                            settings on the clusters to enable replication. Perform the following
                            steps to accomplish this task:
Enable Kerberos authentication. For more information,
                                    see Enabling Kerberos
                                        authentication for CDP. 
Enable replication between clusters using Kerberos
                                    authentication. For more information, see Configuring kerberized clusters for replication.

Add the destination principal as a proxy user
                            on the source cluster if you are using different Kerberos principals for
                            the source and destination clusters.For example, if you are
                                using the hdfssrc principal on the source cluster
                                and the hdfsdest principal on the destination
                                cluster, add the following key-value pairs to the HDFS
                                    service Cluster-wide Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                                    Valve) for core-site.xml property on the source
                                cluster and then restart the HDFS service:

Name =
                                            hadoop.proxyuser.hdfsdest.groups;
                                        Value = *


Name =
                                            hadoop.proxyuser.hdfsdest.hosts;
                                        Value = *





Do you need to replicate data securely? If so, ensure that the SSL/TLS
                    certificate exchange between two Cloudera Manager instances that manage source
                    and target clusters respectively is configured. For more information, see Configuring SSL/TLS certificate exchange between two Cloudera Manager instances.

Cloudera Manager provides data
            analytics that you can download and use to diagnose HDFS replication
            performance.

Parent topic: HDFS replication policies