Ozone replication policiesCloudera Docs
Ozone replication policies
Apache Ozone is a scalable, distributed, and high performance object store optimized
        for big data workloads and can handle billions of objects of varying sizes. Ozone storage is
        co-located on HDFS. You can create Ozone replication policies to replicate data in Ozone
        buckets between clusters with CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher using Cloudera Manager
        7.7.1 or higher.
Cloudera supports the following types of Ozone storage:

Object store buckets (OBS), which are storage buckets where all the keys
                are written into a flat namespace and can be accessed using S3 interface provided by
                Ozone.
File System Optimization (FSO), which are Hadoop-compatible file system
                buckets where the rename and delete operations on the directories are atomic. These
                buckets can be accessed using Filesystem APIs and S3 interfaces.
Legacy buckets, which are Ozone buckets created prior to CDP Private Cloud
                Base 7.1.8 and use the Ozone File System (ofs) protocol or scheme.

You can use Ozone replication policies  to replicate or migrate the required
            Ozone data to another cluster to run load-intensive workloads, back up data, or for
            backup-restore use cases. 
Ozone replication policies support data replication between:
FSO buckets in source and target clusters using ofs protocol. Supports
                    incremental replication using file checksums.
legacy buckets in source and target clusters using ofs protocol.
                    Supports incremental replication using file checksums.noteIf one or both of the source and destination buckets
                        is a legacy bucket, then the
                            ozone.om.enable.filesystem.paths flag
                        (cluster-level configuration property) in the
                            ozone-site.xml file must be enabled on the
                        cluster(s) with the legacy bucket.
OBS buckets in source and target clusters that support S3A filesystem
                    using the S3A scheme or replication protocol. 


Preparing clusters for Ozone replication policiesYou must prepare the clusters, create buckets in the target cluster, and configure         additional configurations for OBS bucket replication before you create Ozone replication         policies.Creating an Ozone replication policyYou can create an Ozone replication policy in CDP Private Cloud Data Services         Replication Manager to replicate Ozone data between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher         clusters.Managing Ozone replication policyAfter you create an Ozone replication policy in CDP Private Cloud Data Services         Replication Manager, you can perform and monitor various tasks related to the replication         policy. You can view the job progress and replication logs. You can suspend a job and also         activate a suspended job. 