Managing Ozone replication policyCloudera Docs
Managing Ozone replication policy
After you create an Ozone replication policy in CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        Replication Manager, you can perform and monitor various tasks related to the replication
        policy. You can view the job progress and replication logs. You can suspend a job and also
        activate a suspended job. 
On the Replication Policies page, you
            can perform the following actions and tasks on a replication policy and its
            jobs:

Click Actions for the following options:



Action
Description



Edit
Change the replication policy options as required for
                                        non-expired policies that are in active or suspended state.
                                        Based on the schedule you choose, the replication policy
                                        replicates data.You can edit the replication policies to
                                            better align with changing requirements. For example,
                                            you might want to change the frequency of a policy
                                            depending on the data size and importance of the data
                                            being replicated. noteA
                                                replication policy is associated with a cluster or a
                                                cluster pair, therefore you cannot change the
                                                clusters in the policy. Optionally,
                                            expand a replication policy on the Replication
                                                Policies page to edit the replication
                                            policy options which include frequency (start time
                                            cannot be modified if the policy has already started),
                                            queue name, maximum bandwidth, and maximum map
                                            slots.tipTo
                                            optimize the replication policy performance, you can
                                            configure the queue name, maximum bandwidth, and maximum
                                            map slots as necessary.


Rerun
Runs the replication policy.


Delete
Deletes the replication policy permanently.


Suspend
Suspends a running replication policy.
                                                Activate a suspended
                                            replication policy, as necessary.


View command details
Opens the latest replication policy job page. The steps
                                        and substeps appear in a tree view. The failed steps are
                                        expanded by default, showing the last 15 lines of the log.
                                        You can also use this option on the Overview > Issues & Updates panel.tipYou can view the complete log for all the jobs on the target cluster Cloudera
                                                  Manager > Running Commands page.


Collect diagnostic bundle
Generates a diagnostic bundle for the replication policy.
                                        You can download the bundle as a ZIP file to your
                                        machine.




Expand the policy details to view the Job History
                    panel.
The following details appear on the panel:
Previous jobs, current job, and one future scheduled job if any.
Job details which include:

Job details
Description



Started
Timestamp when the job started.


Ended
Timestamp when the job ended.


Duration
Time taken to complete the job.


Progress 
Current status of a running job.




Click a job on the Job History panel to view the following
                    tabs:



Tab
Description



General
Shows the following job details:

Started at timestamp
Duration to complete the
                                                job
HDFS Replication Report to
                                                download the job statistics in CSV format
Job status Message



Command Details
Shows the job steps along with the timestamp.




Download the following CSV reports from the General  > HDFS Replication Report field to track the replication jobs and to troubleshoot
                    issues:



Report
Description



Listing
Lists all the files and directories copied during the
                                        replication job.


Status
Status report of the files. Shows the following status
                                        for each file:
an Error  occurred
                                                and the file was not copied.
a Deleted file.
an up-to-date file for which the replication was
                                                  Skipped.



Error Status 
Status report of all the copied files with errors. Each
                                        file shows the status, path, and message for the copied
                                        files with errors.


Skipped Status
Status report of all skipped files. Each file lists the
                                        status, path, and message for the databases and tables that
                                        were skipped.


Deleted Status 
Status report of all deleted files. Each file lists the
                                        status, path, and message for the databases and tables that
                                        were deleted.


Performance
Summary report about the performance of the running
                                        replication job which includes the last performance sample
                                        for each mapper that is working on the replication
                                        job.


Full Performance
Performance report of the job which includes the samples
                                        taken for all mappers during the replication job. 


noteThe reports are generated based on the source
                        Cloudera Manager response. If the Cloudera Manager response is interrupted
                        or is not handled as expected, the Replication report not found for
                            command with id: {command_id} error appears. 



Parent topic: Ozone replication policies