Hive replication policiesCloudera Docs
Hive replication policies
You can use Hive replication policies in CDP Private Cloud Data Services Replication
        Manager to replicate Hive metastore and Hive external tables between CDP Private Cloud Base
        7.1.8 or higher clusters.
Before you replicate using Hive replication policies, consider the following
            limitations and guidelines:

Managed table replication is not supported. Replication Manager translates
                the managed table from the source cluster to the target cluster as an external
                table. Replication Manager stores the replicated table as an external table.
If the hadoop.proxyuser.hive.groups configuration
                is changed to restrict access to the Hive Metastore Server for certain users or
                groups, you must include the hdfs group or a group containing the
                    hdfs user in the list of groups specified for Hive/Impala
                replication to work. This configuration can be specified either on the Hive service
                as an override, or in the core-site.xml file in the HDFS
                configuration on both the source and destination clusters. 
Before you use the drop table and truncate table DDL commands, consider
                the following:
If you create a Hive replication policy for a Hive table and you
                        drop the table in the source cluster after replication, the table remains on
                        the destination cluster. The table is not dropped when subsequent
                        replications occur.
If you drop a table on the destination cluster, and the table is
                        still included in the replication job, the table is re-created on the
                        destination during the replication.
If you drop a table partition or index on the source cluster, the
                        replication job also drops it on the destination cluster.
If you truncate a table, and the Delete Policy option
                        during replication policy creation is set to Delete to
                            Trash or Delete Permanently, the
                        corresponding data files are deleted on the destination during subsequent
                        replication jobs.



Preparing clusters for Hive replication policiesBefore you create a Hive replication policy, you must verify whether CDP Private         Cloud Data Services Replication Manager supports the clusters for replication, the required         ports are open, and the clusters for replication are added in the Management Console. You         can also enable Kerberos authentication for clusters supporting Kerberos.Creating a Hive replication policyYou can create a Hive replication policy in CDP Private Cloud Data Services         Replication Manager to replicate Hive external tables between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8         or higher clusters.Managing Hive replication policyAfter you create a Hive replication policy in CDP Private Cloud Data Services         Replication Manager, you can perform and monitor various tasks related to the replication         policy. You can view the job progress and replication logs. You can edit the advanced         options to optimize a job run. You can suspend a job and also activate a suspended job. You         can edit the replication policy as necessary.