Replication between clusters using Kerberos authenticationCloudera Docs
Replication between clusters using Kerberos authentication
After you enable Kerberos authentication on the source and destination clusters, you
  must perform some additional steps to enable replication on the clusters. The additional steps
  include opening the required ports on the clusters, checking the realm names to avoid conflicts
  when running replication jobs, and configuring the source and target clusters.
Replication Manager supports the following replication scenarios when Kerberos
   authentication is used in a cluster:

Secure source to a secure destination.
Insecure source to an insecure destination.
Insecure source to a secure destination when the following requirements are met:
When a destination cluster has multiple source clusters, all the source clusters
      must either be secure or insecure. Replication Manager does not support a mix of secure and
      insecure source clusters.
The configuration steps in Configuring user to replicate from unsecure to
              secure clusters must be complete.


To enable Kerberos authentication, see Enabling Kerberos authentication for CDP. To enable
      replication between clusters using Kerberos authentication, see Configuring kerberized
        clusters for replication.
note

Replication Manager works with clusters in different Kerberos realms even without a Kerberos
     realm trust relationship. The Cloudera Manager configuration properties Trusted
      Kerberos Realms and Kerberos Trusted Realms are used for
     Cloudera Manager configuration, and are not related to Kerberos realm trust relationships.
If you are using a standalone DistCp job between clusters in different Kerberos realms, you
          must configure a realm trust.



Configuring kerberized clusters for replicationTo replicate data between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher clusters using         Kerberos authentication, you must ensure the required ports are open and the clusters are         configured as required.Configuring user to replicate from unsecure to secure clusterConfigure a user (on all the hosts on both the source and destination clusters) that     Replication Manager can use to replicate data from an unsecure cluster (one that does not use     Kerberos authentication) to a secure cluster (a cluster that uses Kerberos). If required,     specify this user in the "Run As Username" field when you create a replication policy.     Replication Manager does not support replicating from a secure cluster to an unsecure cluster,     or a mixture of secure and unsecure source clusters in replication scenarios where a destination     cluster has multiple source clusters.Kerberos connectivity testAs part of  the Test Connectivity, Cloudera Manager tests for properly configured     Kerberos authentication on the source and destination clusters that run the replication. Test     Connectivity runs automatically when you add a peer for replication, or you can manually     initiate Test Connectivity from the Actions menu. Parent topic: Appendix