Adding and configuring a new Hue service on a new hostCloudera Docs
Adding and configuring a new Hue service on a new
        host
To migrate the Hue service from one host to another within the same cluster, you can
        add a new Hue service on a new host using the Add Service wizard and manually configure the
        Hue service as needed.

Sign in to Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.

Go to Clusters > Hue service and stop the Hue service by clicking Actions > Stop.

Go to Clusters > [***CLUSTER-NAME***] and click Add Service from the menu.

On the Add Service wizard, select
                        Hue.

On the Select Dependencies page, select the
                        Optional Dependencies.

importantIn CDH 6 and earlier, the Hive service included the Hive
                        Metastore and HiveServer2. In Cloudera Runtime 7.0 and later, this service
                        only includes the Hive Metastore. HiveServer2 and other components of the
                        Hive execution engines are part of the HIVE_ON_TEZ service.If you need to
                            run Hive queries, then select an optional dependency containing the
                            HIVE_ON_TEZ service. If you need to run only Impala queries, then the
                            HIVE_ON_TEZ service is not required.


On the Assign Roles page, click the field below
                        Hue Server and Load Balancer
                    roles. This launches a dialog box where you can select hosts where you want to
                    add the role. 
Click OK after making your selection.

On the Setup Database page, specify the details of your
                    existing Hue database.


Select your database vendor from the Type field
                            and specify the Database Hostname,
                                Database Name,
                                Username, and Password
                            of your existing database.


Click Test Connection, and when the success
                            message appears, click Continue.


The wizard configures and starts Hue and its dependent services.

After the new Hue service is in the running state, configure the Hue Advanced
                    Configuration Snippet as it is in the existing Hue service on the older
                    host.

Click Save Changes and restart the Hue service.

Verify that the new Hue service functions as expected.

Delete the Hue service from the old host by clicking Actions > Delete. 


Parent topic: Moving the Hue service to a different host