Adding a Hue role instance with Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Adding a Hue role instance with Cloudera Manager
Roles are functions that comprise a service. Role instances must be assigned to one
      or more hosts. You can assign roles to hosts by using Cloudera Manager.
    

In the Cloudera Manager Home page, select the Hue service.

On the Hue service page, click the Instances tab.

On the Instances tab page, click Add Role Instances on the
              right side of the page.

On the Assign Roles page:


Click Select hosts under the role
                  names to select hosts where you want to add the role. This launches
                  a dialog box where you can select hosts where you want to add the role.
The wizard evaluates host hardware configurations to determine the best hosts
                  for each role. All worker roles are automatically assigned to the same set of
                  hosts as the HDFS DataNode. You can reassign if necessary. Specify hostnames by IP
                  address, rack name, or by range:
                  

Range Definition
Matching Hosts



10.1.1.[1-4]
10.1.1.1, 10.1.1.2, 10.1.1.3, 10.1.1.4


host[1-3].company.com
host1.company.com, host2.company.com, host3.company.com


host[07-10].company.com
host07.company.com, host08.company.com, host09.company.com,
                            host10.company.com





Click OK to save your hostname selection for a role.


When you are finished assigning roles to hosts, click
                  Continue in the lower right corner of the page.



Cloudera Manager automatically adds the roles and returns you to the Hue Instances
              tab.

noteIf your cluster uses Kerberos, Cloudera Manager automatically adds a Hue
            Kerberos Ticket Renewer role to each host where you assigned the Hue Server role
            instance. Cloudera Manager throws a validation error if the new Hue Server role does not
            have a co-located Kerberos Ticket Renewer role. See "Enabling Kerberos for
            Authentication" for more information.



