Adding a Hue service with Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Adding a Hue service with Cloudera Manager
Hue is part of the CDP Private Cloud Base stack, but is not installed by default. To
    use Hue, you must add it to your cluster using the "Add Service to Cluster" wizard in Cloudera
    Manager.

Sign in to Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.

Go to Clusters > Actions and click Add Service.
The Add Service to Cluster wizard is displayed.

Select Hue as the Service Type and click
            Continue.
The Select Dependencies page is displayed.

On the Select Dependencies page, select the optional dependencies
          that are required for your cluster and click Continue.
The required dependency is selected by default.

note
In CDH 6 and earlier, the Hive service included the Hive Metastore and HiveServer2.
              In Cloudera Runtime 7.0 and later, this service only includes the Hive Metastore.
              HiveServer2 and other components of the Hive execution engines are part of the
              HIVE_ON_TEZ service.
If you need to run Hive queries, then select an optional dependency containing the
                HIVE_ON_TEZ service.
If you need to run only Impala queries, then the HIVE_ON_TEZ service is not
              required.



On the Assign Roles page, you can perform one of the following
          actions:


To accept the default role assignments, click Continue in the
              lower right corner of the page. To view the default role assignments by host, click
                View By Host.

To customize role assignments, click the field below Hue
                  Server and Load Balancer roles. This launches a
                dialog box where you can select hosts where you want to add the role. Click
                  OK after making your selection.
The wizard evaluates host hardware configurations to determine the best hosts for
                each role. All worker roles are automatically assigned to the same set of hosts as
                the HDFS DataNode. You can reassign if necessary. Specify hostnames by IP address,
                rack name, or by range:


Range Definition
Matching Hosts



10.1.1.[1-4]
10.1.1.1, 10.1.1.2, 10.1.1.3, 10.1.1.4


host[1-3].company.com
host1.company.com, host2.company.com, host3.company.com


host[07-10].company.com
host07.company.com, host08.company.com, host09.company.com,
                        host10.company.com






On the Setup Database page:


Select a database vendor from the Type field and specify the
                Database Hostname, Database Name,
                Username, and Password.


Click Test Connection, and when the success message appears,
              click Continue and Cloudera Manager starts the Hue
              service.



Review your configurations on the Review Changes page and click
            Continue.

On the Command Details page, expand the running commands to view
          the details of any step, including log files and command output. You can filter the view
          by selecting Show All Steps, Show Only Failed
            Steps, or Show Only Running Steps.
After the First Run command completes, click
            Continue to go to the Summary page.

After the service is started, click Continue and then click
            Finish.
If your cluster uses Kerberos, Cloudera Manager automatically adds a Hue Kerberos
          Ticket Renewer role to each host where you assigned the Hue Server role instance. See
          "Enabling Kerberos Authentication" for more information.


