Reference architectureCloudera Docs
Reference architecture
Hue server can support approximately 25 concurrent users, depending on what tasks the
    users are performing. Most scaling issues occur as a result of users performing
    resource-intensive operations and not from the number of users. For example, large downloads of
    query results can impact resource availability for the other users who are using the same Hue
    instance during the download operation. During that time, the users can experience slow
    performance. Another common cause of noticeable performance changes are slow RPC calls between
    Hue and another service. When this happens, queries may appear to suddenly "stop responding"
    after they are submitted.
As a guide, 2 Hue servers can support up to:

100 unique users per week
50 users per hour at peak times executing up to 100 queries

A typical setup is 2 Hue servers.
General guidelines

Deploy a load balancer in front of Hue.
Use a production-quality database.
Ensure that other services, such as Impala, Hive, and Oozie, are healthy and not impacted
          by too few resources. If these services are hanging, it adversely affects Hue performance.
Consider moving workloads that are subject to SLAs (service-level agreements) or
          considered "noisy neighbors" to their own compute cluster. Noisy neighbors are
          workloads that use the majority of available resources and cause performance issues.
        

Limit the number of rows that are returned for queries.
One way to limit the number of rows returned is to specify a value for the
            download_row_limit configuration property for the Hue Beeswax
            application. This property can be set in the Hue Service Advanced
              Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for hue_safety_valve.ini property in
            Cloudera Manager: 
In Cloudera Manager, click Hue > Configuration, and enter Hue Service Advanced Configuration
                Snippet in the search text box.

In the text box for the Hue Service Advanced Configuration Snippet
                  (Safety Valve) for hue_safety_valve.ini, add the following
                  configuration information:

[beeswax]
download_row_limit=number_of_rows
        


Click Save Changes and click the restart icon at the top
                  of the page to restart the Hue service: 









