Adding new role instances for Hue server, Hue Load Balancer, and Kerberos Ticket Renewer on new hostsCloudera Docs
Adding new role instances for Hue server, Hue Load Balancer, and Kerberos Ticket Renewer
        on new
        hosts
To migrate the Hue service from one host to another within the same cluster, you can
        add new hosts to your CDP cluster and then add the Hue Server, Hue Load Balancer, and
        Kerberos Ticket Renewer to the new host while inheriting the configurations from the
        existing roles.

Sign in to Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.

Add new hosts for Hue server, Hue Load Balancer, and Kerberos Ticket Renewer to
                    your cluster by going to Hosts > Add Hosts.

Go to Clusters > Hue service > Instances and click Add Role Instances.

On the Assign Roles page, specify the role assignments for
                    Kerberos Ticket Renewer, Load Balancer, and Hue Server by clicking
                        Select hosts.

Select the new hosts that you have added to your CDP cluster for each of these
                    roles.

Click Continue, review your changes, and exit the
                    wizard.

Go back to the Instances tab and start the new role
                    instances by selecting the newly added roles and click Actions for Selected > Start.
The newly configured roles inherit settings and configurations from the
                    existing roles, including the configuration in the Advanced Configuration
                    Snippet. 

Verify that the new roles have the same configuration as the existing roles and
                    the Hue service functions as expected.

importantIf you have applied host-specific configuration, then you
                        must manually apply the same configuration to your new host.


Delete the Hue roles from the old host by selecting them and clicking Actions for Selected > Delete.

Restart the Hue service.


Parent topic: Moving the Hue service to a different host