Using Oracle database with HueCloudera Docs
Using Oracle database with Hue
You can use the Oracle database to store Hue metadata, job and query history, and
  account information. In CDP 7.1.x, Hue supports Oracle database versions 12c and 19c.
To use an Oracle database with Hue, you need:
Oracle Instant Client library: The Oracle Instant Client  connects Hue to the backend
     Oracle database. The Oracle Client libraries provide the necessary network connectivity and
     tools such as SQL*Plus and Oracle Data Pump to access the data. 
cx_Oracle Python extension module: The cx_Oracle module loads the Oracle Client
     libraries. The cx_Oracle module and the Oracle Client libraries communicate with the data over
     Oracle Net. 

Hue on CDP 7.1.8 and higher uses Python version 3.8.12 and Django version 3.2.13. The minimum
   compatible cx_Oracle version that you can use with Hue is 6.4.1. cx_Oracle is not distributed
   with CDP 7.1.8. You must download and install it manually. If you are on an older version of CDP,
   or if you are upgrading to CDP from CDH 5.x or 6.x, then you must upgrade cx_Oracle from 5.2.1 to
   6.4.1.
noteHue on 7.1.8 and higher supports Oracle Database Server versions 12.2 and
   higher and cx_Oracle (the Python interface for Oracle database) versions 6.0 and higher.
To use Oracle as a backend database for Hue, you must download and install the Oracle Instant
   Client library and cx_Oracle Python extension module, and then set the database parameters in
   Cloudera Manager Hue configurations.
You must download the Oracle Instant Client library 19.16 (both basic and SDK clients) from the
    Oracle website. You can download the cx_Oracle Python
   extension module from https://pypi.org/project/cx-Oracle/.
importantcx_Oracle Python module 8.3.0 is included with CDP
   7.1.8 CHF 10. You need not download it separately.

Installing and configuring the Oracle serverFollow the Oracle documentation to install the database. This step is required only         if you do not have the Oracle database installed in your data center/environment. If you are         using an existing Oracle database, then you can skip this step.(Optional) Configuring the character setAL16UTF16 is the default value of the National Character Set (NLS_NCHAR_CHARACTERSET)         for the Oracle database. Cloudera recommends that you use the default         NLS_NCHAR_CHARACTERSET. However, if needed, you can configure the National Character Set to         UTF-8.Creating Hue Schema in Oracle databaseHue requires a SQL database to store small amounts of data, including user account         information as well as the history of queries and sharing permissions. Ensure that tables in         the Hue schema are not compressed.Downloading, staging, and activating the Oracle Instant Client parcelCloudera         distribution does not contain the Oracle Instant Client parcel. You must download the Oracle         Instant Client library 19.16 (both basic and SDK clients) from the Oracle         website.Downloading and installing cx_Oraclecx_Oracle Python extension module is not included in the CDP 7.1.8 distribution. You         must download and install it manually after you have installed the Oracle Instant Client on         all Hue server hosts.Configuring Oracle as backend database for HueYou can configure Oracle as the backend database for Hue after you have downloaded,         distributed, activated the Oracle Instant Client parcel either using Oracle Service Name or         SID.Configuring high availability support for Oracle RAC databaseFor seamless connectivity and high availability, you can use Oracle Real Application         Clusters (RAC) database as Hue’s backend database.