Troubleshooting Backup and Restore ManagerCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting Backup and Restore Manager
The troubleshooting scenarios in this topic help you to troubleshoot issues that might
    appear for DRS in the Control Plane. The “Backup and Restore Manager” in CDP Private Cloud Data
    Services Management Console leverages the data recovery service capabilities to backup and
    restore Kubernetes namespaces and resources.

CDP Control Plane UI or the Backup and Restore Manager becomes inaccessible after a
        failed restore event

Condition
What to do if the CDP Control Plane UI does not come up or the Backup and Restore
                Manager (or drscp options) becomes inaccessible after a failed restore event?


Cause
Sometimes, some configurations take more time to restore. For example,
                    in a shared cluster (OCP) that is heavily loaded, the restore event might
                    surpass the set timeout limit. In this scenario, you can either wait or rerun
                    the restore event again.
tipRun the restore event for such scenarios
                    during non-peak hours.

Solution

You can perform one of the following steps after a failed restore
                            event:
Wait for a minimum of 15 minutes. This might resolve the
                                issue automatically if the issue was caused due to timeout. You can
                                verify this in the logs.
Run restore again. This might resolve the issue if it was
                                temporary such as, restore event during cluster maintenance.

If the Control Plane is not restored successfully even after you
                        follow the steps, contact Cloudera Support for further assistance.





Timeout error appears in Backup and Restore Manager

Condition
What to do if a timeout error appears in the Backup and Restore Manager (or drscp
                options) during a restore event?


Solution

When the restore event crosses the time set in the
                            POD_CREATION_TIMEOUT environment property of the
                            cdp-release-thunderhead-drsprovider deployment in
                        the drs namespace, a timeout error appears. By default, the property is set
                        to 900 seconds. In this scenario, you must manually verify whether the pods
                        are up or not.





Stale configurations in Cloudera Manager after a restore event

Condition
Why are stale configurations in Cloudera Manager found after a restore
                event?


Cause
This scenario appears when you take a backup of the CDP Private Cloud Data
                    Services Control Plane, upgrade Data Services, and then perform a restore.
                    During the upgrade process, new parcels are activated and configurations in
                    Cloudera Manager might have changed.

Solution

It is recommended that you restart Cloudera Manager after the
                        upgrade process is complete and then initiate the restore event.





Timeout error during backup of OCP clusters

Condition
What to do when the “The execution of the sync command has timed out" error
                appears during a backup event for OCP clusters?


Cause
This scenario is observed when the cluster is heavily used and the
                    backup event is initiated during peak hours.

Solution

You can restart the nodes, this causes the disk to unmount and
                        forces the operating system to write any data in its cache to the disk.
                        After the restart is complete, initiate another backup. If any warnings
                        appear, scrutinize to verify whether there are any dire warnings, otherwise
                        the generated backup is safe to use. The only drawback in this scenario is
                        the downtime impact, that is the time taken to back up the OCP clusters is
                        longer than usual. Therefore, it is recommended that you back up the
                        clusters during non-peak hours.
If the sync errors continue to appear, contact your IT department
                        to check whether there is an issue with the storage infrastructure which
                        might be preventing the sync command from completing on time.




