Using DRS with CDWCloudera Docs
Using DRS with CDW
You can back up and restore Kubernetes namespaces behind Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)
  entities (for example, Database Catalogs, Virtual Warehouses) on demand using the Data Recovery
  Service (DRS). CDW leverages DRS and provides CDP CLI endpoints which you can use to create and
  restore backups for CDW namespaces to back up CDW metadata and configurations such as Kubernetes
  objects, persistent volumes, autoscaling configuration, and so on.
The following limitations apply for CDW data service if you are on Embedded Container Service (ECS) or using an embedded database on Red Hat OpenShift
   Container Platform:

The embedded database that CDW uses is part of the Control Plane. You cannot back
    up only CDW-related entities from the embedded database using the dw
     create-backup command. You must take a backup of the Control Plane service.
You must restore the entire Control Plane configurations to restore configurations
    stored in the CDW database. This recreates the Control Plane namespace.

List of data recovery sub-commands for CDW
The following table lists the commands and CLI endpoints for backing up and restoring
        Kubernetes namespaces behind CDW entities:

DRS sub-commands for CDW
Description



create-backup
Creates an on-demand backup for the Data Warehouse including Kubernetes
                  objects, persistent volumes, and so on. Backup requests are processed
                  asynchronously and instantaneously.


delete-backup
Deletes an existing Data Warehouse backup. The call returns immediately. It
                  returns a delete CRN, which is the deletion process identifier.


describe-backup
Returns the description of an existing Data Warehouse backup.


restore-backup
Restores the state of the Data Warehouse from an existing backup. It returns
                  a restore CRN, which is the identifier of the restoration process.


describe-restore
Returns the description of the Data Warehouse restore operation.


list-backup-entities
Lists potential backup entities associated with the Data Warehouse.


list-backups
Lists backups associated with the Data Warehouse.


list-restores
Lists restores associated with the Data Warehouse.


get-logs
Returns the job logs corresponding to the specified CRN.




Related informationCDP CLI reference of DRS commands for CDW