Network and securityCloudera Docs
Network and security
Data Hub clusters run within the network that is part of your environment and inherit
  many environment’s security configurations:



Item
Description



Network and subnet
Data Hub clusters use the network and subnet specified or created on the environment
        level.


Security groups
Data Hub clusters use security group settings specified or created on the environment
        level.


Security and governance 
Each Data Hub cluster is attached to a data lake running in the same environment. The
        data lake provides a way for you to centrally apply and enforce authentication,
        authorization, and audit policies across multiple ephemeral Data Hub clusters. Furthermore,
        it provides a protective ring around the data wherever that’s stored, be that in cloud
        object storage or HDFS. 


Kerberos
All Data Hub clusters are Kerberized. The IPA server running within the environment
        provides Kerberos to all Data Hub clusters. 


Secure gateway for access to cluster UIs and endpoints
Data Hub users can access cluster UIs and endpoints via a secure gateway with a proxy
        and web UI SSO powered by Apache Knox. 


SSH access 
SSH access to Data Hub clusters is available to an admin user (root access) and
        additional users (basic level of access):

When registering an environment, your CDP administrator provides an SSH key
           that can later be used for root-level access to all Data Hub clusters. This allows the
           CDP administrator to access all clusters as root.


Additionally, it is possible for other users to set up a password and access
           Data Hub clusters via SSH by using that password. 

A Power User can add and delete SSH keys for all users including machine
                    users, and users can add and delete their own SSH keys. Once these SSH keys are
                    uploaded and synced, they can be used to access workload cluster nodes. RSA or
                    ED25519 keys are supported. See Managing SSH keys for more
                    information.
note
SSH access to the Cloudera Manager server node is not available. By default, Cloudera
          Manager server is installed on the master node.





Related informationManaging SSH keys