CDP accountsCloudera Docs
CDP accounts
A CDP account (sometimes called a CDP tenant) is the management console where users log
    in to access their services. A CDP account contains one or more CDP environments.
CDP Accounts
Physically, all management consoles run in a shared infrastructure (the Cloudera Control
        Plane). Each management console has a unique ID and is logically isolated from other CDP
        accounts. For example, if you have two CDP accounts, you cannot view the resources in
        account 2 if you are logged into account 1. Each CDP account, including sub-accounts, has a
        separate invoice.
A CDP account can have one or more identity providers. Each identity provider is connected
        to one SAML provider, which in turn is connected to an Active Directory. A CDP account can
        be connected to multiple Azure Active Directory organizations (via identity provider) and
        multiple subscriptions. Cloudera creates one CDP account per customer; you can create
        additional CDP accounts through a manual approvals process.
For example, the "Cloudera CDP Demos" account is connected to:


3 identity providers, each connected to an LDAP Server via SAML:
Corporate OKTA, so that anybody with a cloudera.com email can log in (as long as
                they are entitled).
An LDAP server used for workshops, so that we can provision temporary users
                without having to go through corporate account lifecycle management.
An LDAP server hosting demo users, so that we can create new personas on demand
                for demo scenarios.

Multiple Azure subscriptions; one per budget item (Sales, Product Management,
            Services, Tradeshow Demos etc.).


This allows different groups to host their own demos and pay for them using their own
            cloud account.



CDP Environments
A CDP environment exists inside a CDP account, and each CDP account can have many
        environments. An environment is a logical container for a Data Lake cluster and any
        workloads that are attached to that cluster, such as Data Hubs, Data Warehouses, Machine
        Learning environments, etc. All services running within an environment share the same
        metadata and use the same Data Lake.
Each environment can be associated with only one cloud account. This association is called
        a CDP credential and points to either:


A service principal for a specific Azure subscription
A cross-account role for a specific AWS account







