Working with cloud credentials in CDP Public Cloud Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Working with cloud credentials in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager
The Cloud Credentials page shows the registered cloud credentials for Replication
        Manager. To replicate data to a storage cloud account, you must register the cloud
        credentials, so that the Replication Manager can access your cloud account. The supported
        cloud storage accounts are Amazon S3 and Azure Blob Filesystem (ABFS). On the Cloud
        Credentials page, you can add, update, or delete cloud credentials. Before you register an
        Amazon S3 cloud account, ensure the cloud bucket requirements are met. Before you add Azure
        Cloud Credentials in Cloudera Manager, ensure the Blob container requirements are
        met.
You can perform the following tasks on the Cloud
                Credentials page to manage cloud credentials:
Add cloud credentials
You can add cloud credentials for your S3 or ABFS account. For information about
                adding cloud credentials, see Working with Cloud Credentials.
noteUnregistered credentials can impact the replication process.
                Credentials associated with a cluster node that do not have updated credentials are
                called unregistered credentials. For example, if a node is down when the credentials
                are changed on a bucket or when the node is brought up that has the old
                credentials.

Update cloud credentials
You can update the cloud credentials based on various factors. When the bucket
                configuration such as secret or access keys, bucket name or endpoint, and encryption
                type is changed, it can affect the Replication Manager replication policy run and
                might require an update to the Replication Manager cloud credentials. 
Credential changes are picked up by the next run of the policy. When you change the
                credentials, the in-progress policy runs might fail but the succeeding runs pick up
                the changes.
To update a cloud credential, click Actions > Update option.

Delete cloud credentials
You can delete unwanted credentials from the Replication Manager. When you delete
                cloud credentials, the replication policies that use the deleted cloud credentials
                might fail. To avoid failures, delete the Replication Manager cloud policies
                associated with the deleted credentials and recreate the policies with the new
                credentials. You can view a list of policies associated with specific credentials on
                the Cloud Credentials page.
To delete a cloud credential, click Actions > Delete option.


Considerations for Amazon S3Consider the cloud bucket requirements to setting up an Amazon S3 cloud         account.Registering Amazon S3 cloud account in Replication ManagerYou must have valid Amazon S3 credentials to register the cloud     account with CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager.ABFS credentialsCurrently, registering Azure cloud credentials using the Replication Manager UI does         not automatically create the same authorisation rules on the source Cloudera Manager         cluster. Considerations for ABFSBlob container requirements for setting up ABFS cloud accounts.Registering ABFS Cloud account in Replication ManagerYou must have valid ABFS credentials in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager to         register the cloud account.Updating Azure cloud credentials in Cloudera ManagerTo register Azure credentials, you need an ADLS Gen2 storage account and a cloud Blob         container with user credentials to use in Replication Manager service. The container has to         have enough space for the replicated data and write permissions to copy the data. Parent topic: Appendix