Using HDFS replication policiesCloudera Docs
Using HDFS replication policies
You can use the HDFS replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager to
    replicate HDFS data. The HDFS replication policies can replicate HDFS data and metadata from
    classic clusters (CDH, CDP Private Cloud Base, and HDP) to CDP Public Cloud storage buckets such
    as S3 and ABFS, and from cloud storage to classic clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base
    clusters). To use an on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base cluster) in the
    replication policy, you must register it as a classic cluster in the Management Console. To use
    the cloud storage for data replication, you must register the cloud credentials in Replication
    Manager so that the Replication Manager service can access the cloud storage. You must also
    verify cluster access and configure minimum ports for replication before you create HDFS
    replication policies.
importantBefore you create replication policies, see
        Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public Cloud to verify whether
      your clusters are supported by Replication Manager.
You can also use CDP CLI commands to create HDFS replication policies. The CDP CLI commands
      for Replication Manager are under the replicationmanager CDP CLI
      option. For more information, see CDP CLI for Replication Manager.

Related informationHDFS replication policySupport matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public CloudCDP CLI for Replication ManagerPreparing to create an HDFS replication policyBefore you create the HDFS replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication         Manager to replicate HDFS data, register the on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud         Base) as a classic cluster in Management Console, register cloud account credentials in the         Replication Manager service, verify cluster access, and configure minimum ports for         replication.Creating HDFS replication policyAfter you register the classic clusters in Management Console and register the cloud     credentials in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager, you can create an HDFS replication policy     to replicate HDFS data. An HDFS replication policy can replicate HDFS data from a classic     cluster (CDH, CDP Private Cloud Base, and HDP clusters) to cloud storage, and from cloud storage     to classic clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base clusters). You can replicate data on-premises     to cloud storage account with a single cluster.Manage and monitor HDFS replication policiesAfter you create an HDFS replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager,         you can perform and monitor various tasks related to the replication policy. You can view         the job progress and replication logs. You can edit the advanced options to optimize a job         run. You can suspend a job and also activate a suspended job. You can edit the replication         policy as necessary.