Optimize HBase replication policy performance when replicating HBase tables with several TB dataCloudera Docs
Optimize HBase replication policy performance when replicating HBase tables with several
        TB data
Can HBase replication policy performance be optimized when replicating HBase tables
        with several TB of data if the "Perform Initial Snapshot" option is chosen during HBase
        replication policy creation?


Complete the following manual steps to optimize HBase replication policy
                    performance when replicating several TB of HBase data if you choose the
                        Perform Initial Snapshot option during the HBase
                    replication policy creation process.

Remedy

Before you create the HBase replication policy, perform the following
                            steps:


Navigate to the source Cloudera Manager > YARN service > Configuration tab.


Search for the mapreduce.task.timeout
                                    parameter.


Increase the value or set it to 0 to switch off the timeout.
                                


Restart the YARN service.


Navigate to the source Cloudera Manager > HBase service > Configuration tab.


Search and configure the following key-value pairs:


hbase.snapshot.master.timeout.millis =
                                                840000

hbase.client.sync.wait.timeout.msec =
                                                  180000


hbase.client.operation.timeout =
                                                  2400000


hbase.client.procedure.future.get.timeout.msec
                                                  = 3000000


hbase.hfilearchiver.thread.pool.max=100


hbase.snapshot.thread.pool.max=24





Restart the HBase service.


Perform steps e through
                                        g on the target Cloudera
                                    Manager.



When you create the HBase replication policy for the first time using
                            the above configured source cluster, you must increase the
                                Maximum Map Slots value to a higher number on
                            the Advanced Settings page. 

tipCalculate this number by
                                multiplying the number of nodes on the source cluster and the number
                                of cores in the node.


If Store File Tracking (SFT) is enabled in the target COD, perform the
                            steps mentioned in the COD migration topic after the
                            replication policy creation is complete.

noteSFT is enabled by default on CDP clusters
                                with COD version 7.2.14.2 and higher using Cloudera Manager versions
                                7.2.16 and higher.





Parent topic: Troubleshooting replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager