Registering Amazon S3 cloud account in Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Registering Amazon S3 cloud account in Replication Manager
You must have valid Amazon S3 credentials to register the cloud
    account with CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager.
When you add cloud credentials for your Amazon S3 account, you
      can choose one of the following authentication methods:
Access secret key. To use this authentication type, you
          require an AWS Access Key and an AWS Secret key that you obtain from Amazon. Cloudera
          Manager stores these values securely and does not store them in world-readable locations.
          The credentials are masked and encrypted in the configurations passed to processes managed
          by Cloudera Manager, and redacted from the logs.
IAM role. Amazon Identity and Access Management (IAM)
          can be used to create users, groups, and roles for use with Amazon Web Services, such as
          EC2 and Amazon S3. IAM role-based access provides the same level of access to all clients
          that use the role. importantIAM role
              conditionsYou can choose the IAM role authentication type only when the
              following conditions are met:
The source cluster is hosted on an AWS EC2 infrastructure. 
The source cluster Cloudera Manager and all the nodes in the cluster are running
                  on an EC2 instance. 
The source cluster Cloudera Manager has the same IAM role. 
For information about configuring AWS credentials, see Introduction to role based provisioning credential in
                AWS.


Go to the Replication Manager > Cloud Credentials  page, and click Add.

In the Add Cloud Credential window, perform the following
          steps:


Select the Cluster.


Select S3 as the Cloud Storage
              Type.


Name - Provide a unique cloud credential name.


Authentication Type - Select one of the following
              authentication types:


Select the authentication type as Access Secret Key from
                  the drop-down. 
Access Key - Enter the valid access key.
Secret Key - Enter the valid secret key.

Select IAM Role if the IAM role conditions
                  mentioned in the About this task section are met, and click
                    Save





Click Validate.

noteUsing the validation feature is recommended to ensure that the
            Amazon S3 bucket keys are valid. If the keys are not valid, the Replication Manager
            policy cannot copy data to the target Amazon S3 bucket.





Verify whether your credentials are listed on the
        Cloud Credentials page.

Parent topic: Working with cloud credentials in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager