What is new in Atlas for Navigator UsersCloudera Docs
What is new in Atlas for Navigator Users
Reviewing the differences between Navigator and Apache Atlas helps you to know more
        about the features and functionalities available for metadata management in Apache
        Atlas.
Customers migrating from CDH with Navigator will be able to take advantage of
            these Atlas features:


Control data access in Ranger using Atlas metadata. Atlas classifications can
                    control table, row, or column level access; Ranger can use Atlas classifications
                    as the trigger to instruct services to mask data. See Configure Atlas Authorization using
                        Ranger.


Reliability and scalability. Atlas uses Kafka to pass metadata and HBase and Solr
                    to store it. See Apache Atlas architecture


Additional metadata sources. Atlas is flexible when it comes to adding metadata
                    models for additional sources through REST APIs for metadata capture; it
                    supports NiFi and Kafka metadata in addition to the sources integrated with
                    Navigator. See Extending Atlas to manage metadata from
                        additional sources.


Running Navigator in Cloudera Manager
After upgrading Cloudera Manager to CDP, Navigator continues to collect
                metadata and audit information from CDH cluster services. There are no changes to
                Navigator functionality; all Navigator data is retained in the Cloudera Manager. 
noteNavigator is recommended to be only in Read-only mode
Post upgrading of the CDH cluster to CDP, Navigator is recommended to be
                used only in the Read-only mode. No scheduling, updating of
                properties, and purging is recommended. If any scheduling is created, it must be
                disabled immediately.
After upgrading a CDH cluster, services that previously sent metadata and
                audit information to Navigator, such as Hive, Impala, Spark, and HBase, are
                configured to send metadata to Atlas. Navigator audit collection for those services
                is disabled. You can still access audit information and metadata through Navigator;
                however, Navigator will not collect new information from cluster services. When you
                have exhausted the value of the Navigator audit information and after you have
                converted Navigator metadata to Atlas content, you can disable Navigator
                servers.


