Migrated features and limitationsCloudera Docs
Migrated features and limitations
Some of the migrated features from Navigator to Atlas are described in this page.
        Some of the features that are not migrated are also listed.
Business metadata is migrated into Atlas, including:

Tags
Custom properties (definitions and entity assignments)
Managed metadata properties (definitions and entity assignments). For more
                information, see .
Original and updated entity names and descriptions

Technical metadata from the following sources are migrated into Atlas:

Hive
Impala
Spark
Referenced HDFS / S3

Features that are not migrated



Audits. In CDP, Ranger collects audit
                            information for successful and failed access to objects under its
                            control. This document includes information on how to migrate your audit
                            information to Ranger and how to archive your existing Navigator
                            audit information.

Entity Metadata. The following metadata entities in
                        Navigator are not migrated to Atlas:
Unreferenced S3 and HDFS entities. Files in
                                HDFS and S3 that are not included in lineage from Hive, Spark, or
                                Impala entities are not migrated.
Metadata for Sqoop, Pig, Map-Reduce v1 and v2, Oozie, and YARN.

Saved Search. Available in both Navigator and Atlas
                        but the implementation is different. The data pertaining to the saved
                        searches are not migrated to Atlas by the nav2atlas script.
                        The users know how to save a search in Atlas, which is similar to the
                        Navigator saved search.
Policies. Navigator policies are not migrated to
                        Atlas. 
Configuration settings. Configuration properties
                        determining Navigator behavior that you have set in Cloudera Manager are not
                        migrated to the new environment. The properties that may apply in Atlas,
                        such as authentication credentials, must be reset in the new
                        environment.



Limitations of migrating from Navigator to Atlas
Regular expressions in Managed Properties

Navigator has Managed Properties which are mapped to Business Metadata
                    in Atlas but the regular expressions added for Managed Properties are not mapped
                    to Business Metadata.

Post upgrade deleting Business Metadata associated to Entity is
                    not possible in Atlas


In Navigator, the Managed Property can be deleted when it is
                        attached to an entity but post upgrade from CDH to CDP, it is not possible,
                        as Atlas treats Business Metadata as a Typedef and
                        deletion of type in Atlas requires no references to any type/entity for the
                        type to be deleted.




