Mapping Navigator metadata to AtlasCloudera Docs
Mapping Navigator metadata to Atlas
You must validate the Navigator to Apache Atlas migration by reviewing the list of
        metadata mapping and its types that are migrated from the Navigator.
Use this topic as a checklist to help you validate the migration of metadata from
            Navigator to Atlas.
User-supplied metadata mapping
The following user-supplied metadata is migrated to Atlas, including
                definitions and assignments to entities. Enumerations defined in Navigator are
                created as instances of the enumeration type in Atlas.


Navigator Construct
Atlas Construct



Tag
Label


User-defined properties
User-defined properties


Key
Key


Value
Value


Managed Properties
Business Metadata Attributes


Namespace
Business Metadata name


Namespace description
Business Metadata description


Property Name (original name)
Attribute name


Classes (entity types that property can be assigned to)
Applicable Types (entity types that property can be assigned
                                to)


Display Name
Display Name (not used in the UI)


Property description
Description (not used in the UI)


Multivalued
Enable Multivalues


Type (Text, Number, Boolean, Date, Enumeration) 
Type (string, Boolean, byte, short, int, float, double, long,
                                date, enumeration)



Policy mapping
Navigator policies provided the ability to apply metadata to Navigator
                entities. They do not have an equivalent function in Atlas and are not migrated. You
                may be able to implement similar functionality through data profilers in the Data
                Catalog. You can create a report of Navigator policies using the Navigator API, for
                example, use a GET call to the /policy API:
curl -X GET "<navigator host>:<port>/api/v14/policy" -u
                    <username>:<password>

Technical metadata mapping
The migration process maps all the needed technical metadata for entities from
                Navigator to be represented in Atlas. There are some instances where the migration
                has to convert data from one type to another or generate new content to conform to
                the Atlas data model. The details of the entity mapping are exhaustively described
                in the Atlas technical metadata transition
                    reference.


Migrating Navigator audit information into AtlasExisting Cloudera Navigator audit information is not migrated into the CDP cluster. Migrate audit reports and processes to RangerIn CDP, Ranger performs auditing against the data access policies defined for each         service.