Migration assumptions and prerequisitesCloudera Docs
Migration assumptions and prerequisites
Before you upgrade your CDH cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base or migrate content from
        Navigator to Apache Atlas, ensure that you have collected all the credentials and set
        expectations for the time required for completing the migration process. 
The prerequisites in this section help you to prepare in advance to
            migration.
In addition to the prerequisites outlined for the Cloudera Manager and CDP
            upgrades, you shall need the following for the Navigator to Atlas migration:


Deleted entities in Navigator. Check the Navigator Administration page to make
                    sure that a successful purge has run recently. If not, consider running a purge
                    before the migration. See Managing Metadata Storage with
                    Purge.


Role to host assignments. Before you begin upgrading to CDP, make a plan for
                    where you will install the Atlas server. In addition, Atlas depends on the
                    HBase, Kafka, and Solr services; your plan should include host assignments for
                    installing the components of these services. See Runtime Cluster Hosts and Role
                        Assignments.


Resources for Atlas service. Atlas requires 16 GB of Java heap (Atlas Max
                    Heapsize property) and 4 Solr shards (Initial Solr Shards for Atlas Collections
                    property). Make sure the host you choose for Atlas has enough resources for all
                    the services' requirements.



cautionYou must note about the default values for Initial Solr Shards for
                Atlas Collections in your Cloudera Manager UI. Before you commence the Atlas
                initialization process, based on your performance requirements, you must decide the
                actual (correct) values for Initial Solr Shards for Atlas Collections in your
                Cloudera Manager instance. Cloudera recommends to set 4 Solr shards (Initial Solr
                Shards for Atlas Collections property). Also, you must not update or modify these
                values after the Atlas initialization has commenced. Additionally, note that once
                the Atlas initialization process is completed, modifying the value of Initial Solr
                Shards for Atlas Collections or Initial Solr Replication Factor for Collections will
                not have any effect on the collections for Atlas in Solr.



Resources for Solr service. During migration, Solr running to serve as Atlas'
                    index requires 12 GB of Java heap (Java Heap Size of Solr Server in Bytes
                    property). You can reset this to make sure the host you chose for Atlas has
                    enough resources for all the services' requirements.


Navigator credentials. The migration requires the username and password for a
                    Navigator user with administrator privileges.


Local disk space needed for intermediate processing. The first two phases of the
                    Navigator-to-Atlas migration produce intermediate files in the /tmp
                    folder in the local file system where Atlas is installed. See Estimating migration time and resources required.


Local disk space for migration staging files. The first two phases of the
                    Navigator-to-Atlas migration produce staging files on the local disk where Atlas
                    is installed. See Estimating migration time and resources required.





Time estimates for migration phases. Each phase of the migration runs
                    independently from the upgrade. You can trigger them to run when convenient. See
                        Estimating migration time and resources required.



Estimating migration time and resources requiredYou must plan your migration process by checking on the time and resources that are         required.Understanding migrated Navigator entitesWhen preparing to migrate content from Navigator to Atlas, it helps to know how many         Navigator entities will be extracted. Use Navigator's search facets for additional         details.