Understanding migrated Navigator entitesCloudera Docs
Understanding migrated Navigator entites
When preparing to migrate content from Navigator to Atlas, it helps to know how many
        Navigator entities will be extracted. Use Navigator's search facets for additional
        details.
To determine the number of Navigator entities extracted for the extraction and
            transformation phases of the migration perform the following steps:

Log into Navigator.
In the Cluster Group facet in the left panel,
                select the cluster you are migrating from.

The main panel displays the count of entities in that cluster. Use this value for
            estimating the extraction and transformation phase durations.



Not all Navigator entities are imported into Atlas. To estimate the subset of
            entities included in the import phase:

Log into Navigator.
In the Cluster Group facet in the left panel,
                select the cluster you are migrating from.
In the Source Type facet in the left panel, select
                "Hive", "Impala", and "Spark".The main panel displays the count of entities from
                    these sources in this cluster.
Double the number from the search results to account for the physical
                files that correspond to the tables and jobs. The HDFS entities referenced by the
                Hive, Impala, and Spark entities are included in the migration.

The migration brings over all business metadata definitions and associations
            with migrationed entities. To determine the number of Navigator-managed properties to
            migrate perform the following steps:

Log into Navigator.
In the left Search panel, find the Tags
                    facet.This facet lists all the tags defined in Navigator. Navigator tags are
                    imported into Atlas as labels.
Go to Administration > Managed
                    Properties.The Navigator namespaces are imported as Atlas
                    business metadata collections. Each managed property is imported as a business
                    metadata attribute.


Parent topic: Migration assumptions and prerequisites