Migrating Navigator audit information into AtlasCloudera Docs
Migrating Navigator audit information into Atlas
Existing Cloudera Navigator audit information is not migrated into the CDP cluster. 
To migrate reports running against Navigator data to Apache Ranger and other
            resources you must review the available options.
To manage Navigator audit information in a CDP Runtime cluster, consider the
            following options:
Maintain legacy audit information in Navigator
You can continue to run Navigator to access your existing audit information
                (and/or metadata). If you choose to keep Navigator running, make sure that its users
                do not add content to the archived system rather than the new Atlas instance.
                Consider:


Removing editing privileges from users. If Navigator is configured for LDAP
                        or Active Directory authentication, you can modify users or groups to remove
                        privileges for adding or editing metadata. For details, see Administering Navigator User
                        Roles.


Marking Navigator entities as stale. If you are managing more than one
                        cluster in Navigator, you can mark entities from the upgraded cluster to
                        indicate to users that the entities are no longer maintained in Navigator.
                        One way to do this is to create a policy that assigns a tag to the entities
                        from the upgraded cluster. For details, see Using Policies to Automate Metadata
                            Tagging.



Archive your Navigator audit information
When Cloudera Manager upgrades to 7.x, it maintains the database of Navigator audit
                information. After the upgrade, you can access audit information through Navigator;
                new audit information continues to be collected from CDH services.
When you upgrade a CDH cluster to Cloudera Runtime, the Navigator audit information
                persists. However, services no longer produce audit information for Navigator. You
                can continue to run Navigator to be able to access the audit information; at some
                point—perhaps after your need for immediate access to the audit information
                expires—you can archive the audit information.





At that point, if Cloudera Manager is not managing another CDH cluster, you
                can shut down Navigator.


Parent topic: Mapping Navigator metadata to Atlas