Cloud Credentials pageCloudera Docs
Cloud Credentials page
The Cloud Credentials page shows the registered cloud credentials for Replication
        Manager. To replicate data to or from a storage cloud account, you must register the cloud
        credentials, so that the Replication Manager can access your cloud account. The supported
        cloud storage accounts are Amazon S3 and Azure Blob Filesystem (ABFS). On the Cloud
        Credentials page, you can add cloud credentials. You can also update or delete the
        credentials when necessary. 
When you add cloud credentials for your Amazon S3 account, you can choose one of the
            following authentication methods:

Access secret key. To use this authentication type,
                you require an AWS Access Key and an AWS Secret key that you obtain from Amazon.
                Cloudera Manager stores these values securely and does not store them in
                world-readable locations. The credentials are masked and encrypted in the
                configurations passed to processes managed by Cloudera Manager, and redacted from
                the logs.
IAM role. Amazon Identity and Access Management
                (IAM) can be used to create users, groups, and roles for use with Amazon Web
                Services, such as EC2 and Amazon S3. IAM role-based access provides the same level
                of access to all clients that use the role. 

importantYou can choose the IAM role authentication type
            only when the following conditions are met:
The source cluster is hosted on an AWS EC2 infrastructure. 
The source cluster Cloudera Manager and all the nodes in the cluster are running
                    on an EC2 instance. 
The source cluster Cloudera Manager has the same IAM role. 
For information about configuring AWS credentials, see Introduction to role based provisioning
                    credential in AWS.
You can perform the following tasks on the Cloud
                Credentials page to manage cloud credentials:
Add cloud credentials
You can add cloud credentials for your S3 or ABFS account. For information about
                adding cloud credentials, see Working with Cloud Credentials.
noteUnregistered credentials can impact the replication process.
                Credentials associated with a cluster node that do not have updated credentials are
                called unregistered credentials. For example, if a node is down when the credentials
                are changed on a bucket or when the node is brought up that has the old
                credentials.

Update cloud credentials
You can update the cloud credentials based on various factors. When the bucket
                configuration such as secret or access keys, bucket name or endpoint, and encryption
                type is changed, it can affect the Replication Manager replication policy run and
                might require an update to the Replication Manager cloud credentials. 
Credential changes are picked up by the next run of the policy. When you change the
                credentials, the in-progress policy runs might fail but the succeeding runs pick up
                the changes.
To update a cloud credential, click Actions > Update.

Delete cloud credentials
You can delete unwanted credentials from the Replication Manager. When you delete
                cloud credentials, the replication policies that use the deleted cloud credentials
                might fail. To avoid failures, delete the Replication Manager cloud policies
                associated with the deleted credentials and recreate the policies with the new
                credentials. You can view a list of policies associated with specific credentials on
                the Cloud Credentials page.
To delete a cloud credential, click Actions > Delete.


Parent topic: Access Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud