HDFS replication policyCloudera Docs
HDFS replication policy
You can use the HDFS replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager to
        replicate HDFS data. The HDFS replication policies can replicate HDFS data and metadata from
        classic clusters (CDH, CDP Private Cloud Base, and HDP) to CDP Public Cloud storage buckets
        such as S3 and ABFS, and from cloud storage to classic clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud
        Base clusters). To use an on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base cluster) in the
        replication policy, you must register it as a classic cluster in the Management Console. To
        use the cloud storage for data replication, you must register the cloud credentials in
        Replication Manager so that the Replication Manager service can access the cloud storage.
        You must also verify cluster access and configure minimum ports for replication before you
        create HDFS replication policies.
importantBefore you create replication policies, see
                Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public Cloud to verify
            whether your clusters are supported by Replication Manager.
You can also use CDP CLI commands to create HDFS replication policies. The CDP CLI
            commands for Replication Manager are under the replicationmanager
            CDP CLI option. For more information, see CDP CLI for Replication
            Manager.

Related informationSupport matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public CloudUsing HDFS replication policiesCDP CLI for Replication ManagerHDFS snapshotsYou can schedule taking HDFS snapshots for replication in the Replication Manager.             HDFS snapshots are read-only point-in-time copies of the filesystem. You can enable             snapshots on the entire filesystem, or on a subtree of the filesystem. In Replication             Manager, you take snapshots at a dataset level. Understanding how snapshots work and             some of the benefits and costs involved can help you to decide whether or not to enable             snapshots.