Requirements and benefits of HDFS snapshotsCloudera Docs
Requirements and benefits of HDFS snapshots
You might want to consider the benefits and memory cost of using snapshots. Verify
        the requirements before you enable snapshots. 
Requirements
You must have HDFS superuser privilege to enable or disable snapshot operations.
                Replication using snapshots requires that the target filesystem data being
                replicated is identical to the source data for a given snapshot. There must be no
                    modification to the data on the target. Otherwise, the integrity of the
                snapshot cannot be guaranteed on the target and replication can fail in various
                ways.

Benefits
Snapshot-based replication helps you to avoid unnecessary copying of renamed files
                and directories. If a large directory is renamed on the source side, a regular
                DistCp update operation sees the renamed directory as a new one and copies the
                entire directory.
Generating copy lists during incremental synchronization is more efficient with
                snapshots than using a regular DistCp update, which can take a long time to scan the
                whole directory and detect identical files. And because snapshots are read-only
                point-in-time copies between the source and destination, modification of source
                files during replication is not an issue, as it can be using other replication
                methods.
A snapshot cannot be modified. This protects the data against accidental or
                intentional modification, which is helpful in governance.

Memory cost
There is a memory cost to enable and maintain snapshots. Tracking the modifications
                that are made relative to a snapshot increases the memory footprint on the NameNode
                and can therefore stress NameNode memory. Because of the additional memory
                requirements, snapshot replication is recommended for situations where you expect to
                do a lot of directory renaming, if the directory tree is very large, or if you
                expect changes to be made to source files while replication jobs run.


Parent topic: HDFS snapshots