Overview pageCloudera Docs
Overview page
When you click Replication Manager on the CDP Public Cloud web interface, the
        Overview page appears. The page provides a snapshot of the Replication Manager service. It
        provides insights into issues and updates related to various entities and resources through
        dashboards like Classic Clusters, Replication Policies, Notifications, and so on. 
 The following panels appear on the Overview page:

Classic Clusters
Policies
Jobs
Issues & Updates

Click Create Policy to create a replication policy.




Parent topic: Access Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud
Classic Clusters
The Classic Clusters panel
      on the Overview page tracks the total number of clusters enabled for Replication Manager, the
      number of clusters that are in an error state, the number of clusters that are active, and the
      number of clusters for which a warning is issued.
You must register your existing on-premises Cloudera Distribution of Hadoop (CDH) and CDP
         Private Cloud Base clusters on the Management Console, after which
         you can copy or move your data to the cloud. In the CDP world, these clusters are called
            classic clusters.
The Classic Clusters panel shows the following cluster status: 
Active clusters that are currently available to run the
               replication jobs.
Clusters having less than 10% disk capacity appears as Warning.
               Click the number to open a table to track the cluster name and the exact disk
               capacity remaining.
Total number of clusters that are in use.
Number of clusters that are currently not running as expected or in
                  Error state.

To investigate the issues associated with clusters that have an error or warning status,
         use Cloudera Manager for on-premises clusters.


Policies 
The Policies
       panel on the Overview page tracks the number of
      replication policies that are in use and their status.
The Policies panel shows the following status for the replication
         policies: 
Active replication policies in Submitted
               state or Running state. This item is not actionable.
Replication policies that are Suspended by the administrator.
               This item is not actionable.
Unhealthy replication policies that are associated with a
               cluster designated as Error on the Classic
                  Clusters panel. Click the number to find out the policy names, the
               names of its associated source clusters and destination clusters, and the services
               that have stopped on the source cluster or destination cluster.
Total number of running policies.

When you click  Policies on the Overview page,
         the Replication Policies page appears. On this page, you can view the
         replication policy details.


Jobs
The Jobs panel on the
      Overview page tracks the total number of running and failed jobs and their status in
      Replication Manager.
The Jobs panel shows the following details: 
In Progress jobs or jobs in running state. 
Failed Last replication policies are the policies for which the
               last job failed to complete. 
Failed in Last 10 replication policies are the policies for
               which at least one of the last ten jobs failed.
Total number of available jobs.

You can click the number in the panel to apply a filter to the Issues &
            Updates table to view the required policies.





Issues &
      Updates
The Issues & Updates
      panel lists the replication policies that have running jobs with at least one job in Failed
      status in the most recent ten jobs. If you do not see any policy, it indicates that the last
      ten jobs of all the replication policies were successful. 
The Issues & Updates panel has the following columns:
Current Job Status of the job. When the job status is running,
               the status circle icon and a progress bar appear. For jobs that are not running, the
               status circle icon appears with Success,
                  Failed, or Ignored text. Hover over
               the Failed status and click View Log to
               view the job log.
Source cluster associated with the replication policy.
Destination cluster associated with the policy.
Service indicates whether the data being replicated is HDFS,
               Hive, or HBase.
Replication Policy name.
Policy History of the last ten job statuses. The column also
               shows the status as colored dots which you can click to view the policy details on
               the Policies page:
Green indicates that the job completed successfully.
Red indicates that the job did not complete.
Gray indicates that the job did not start because a previous instance of the
                     policy is still in progress. Only one run of a job can be in progress at one
                     time. If a job is consistently ignored, edit the replication policy to modify
                     its frequency.
When you click the colored dots, the page appears with the filter preset to
                  show the information about the specified policy.
Transferred/Files is the amount of data transferred, in
               gigabytes, and the number of objects transferred, if available. When a job is
               running, the column shows In Progress.
Runtime or time taken to complete the most recent job.
Most recent job that Started.
Most recent job that Ended.

The Actions menu shows the following options:
Abort Job aborts a running job. 
Re-run Job starts another instance of the policy. This option
               is not available for running jobs.
Edit Policy settings. This option is not available for expired
               policies.
Delete Policy removes the replication policy permanently. The
               delete operation cannot be undone. 
Suspend Policy only if the job is running. 
Activate Policy resumes a suspended replication policy. 





