Replication Policies pageCloudera Docs
Replication Policies page
The "Replication Policies" page shows the number of replication policies that are
        active, the number of policies that have been suspended, the number of policies that are in
        error state, and the total number of replication policies available in Replication Manager.
        The page also provides a detailed view about the replication policies.
The Replication Policies page shows the number of policies that
            have the following status:
Error indicates replication policies associated with a
                    cluster designated as Error  on the Classic
                        Clusters map. Click the number to understand the policy names,
                    the names of the source and destination clusters, and which services are stopped
                    on the source or destination cluster.
Active replication policies that are in
                        Submitted or Running state.
                    This item is not actionable.
Suspended replication policies that have been suspended by
                    the administrator. This item is not actionable.
Total number of running policies.

Click a replication policy to view more details about the policy. Click
                Actions to perform more actions on a replication policy.
Replication policy details
You can also view the following policy details on the Replication
                    Policies page:
Current policy Status .
Policy Type shows HDFS, Hive, or HBase.
Replication policy Name . 
Source  cluster name.
Destination cluster name.
Jobs that were run for the replication policy and its
                        current status. 
Duration or time taken to run the policy.
Last Success timestamp of the last successful
                        run.
Next Run timestamp of the next scheduled run.

You can change the following options on the Replication
                    Policies page:
Change the timezone for the timestamps on the page.
Choose one of the following options to Load policies
                            faster by delaying to load their job history:

Delay loading job history when history is too
                                    long
Always load job history
Never load job history

By default, the replication policies are loaded only partially on the
                    Replication Policies page, therefore the page might display
                incomplete statistics about a job status and replication policies with failed jobs
                might take a longer time to load. You can change the behavior depending on your
                requirements.


Parent topic: Access Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud