Replication Manager in CDP Public CloudCloudera Docs
Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud 
Replication Manager is a service in CDP Public Cloud. You can create replication
        policies in Replication Manager to copy and migrate data from CDH (version 5.13 and higher)
        clusters (HDFS, Hive, and HBase data) and CDP Private Cloud Base (version 7.1.4 and higher)
        clusters (HDFS, Hive external tables, and HBase data) to CDP Public Cloud clusters. You can
        also replicate HDFS data from cloud storage to classic clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud
        Base clusters), and Hive external tables to Data Hubs. The supported Public Cloud services
        include Amazon S3 and Microsoft Azure ADLS Gen2 (ABFS). Replicating Hive managed tables
        using Replication Manager from HDP clusters to CDP Public Cloud is a beta feature and is not
        available for general use. 
Before you create replication policies, you must ensure that the clusters are
            supported by Replication Manager. For more information, see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public
                Cloud.
You can access the Replication Manager service on the CDP Public Cloud web
            interface. To replicate data between clusters, add the source on-premises clusters as
            classic clusters on the Management Console > Clusters page, add/create one or more CDP Public Cloud SDX Data Lakes and/or Data
            Hubs, and then create the replication policies in Replication Manager. The
                Replication Policies page shows the progress and status of
            replication policy jobs. You can also use CDP CLI to create HDFS and Hive replication
            policies.
Replication Manager provides the following functionalities that you can use to
            accomplish your data replication goals:
HDFS replication policies
These policies replicate HDFS data and metadata from on-premises clusters
                (CDH, CDP Private Cloud Base, and HDP) to Public Cloud storage buckets such as S3
                and ABFS, and from cloud storage to classic clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base
                clusters). You can choose the frequency of replicating data.
Some use cases where you can use HDFS replication policies include: 
Moving legacy data (from CDH clusters) to cloud deployments (AWS or Azure on
                        CDP Public Cloud).
Archiving cold data.
Replicating the required data to another cluster to run analytics on
                        it.


Hive replication policies
These policies support table-level replication and can replicate Hive
                external tables from on-premises clusters (CDH and CDP Private Cloud Base) to cloud
                storage such as S3 and ABFS and to Data Hubs. They also can:
replicate data stored in Hive tables, Hive metadata, data in Hive
                        metastore, and Impala metadata (catalog server metadata) associated with
                        Impala tables registered in the Hive metastore, andnoteHive2 managed tables are converted to external
                            tables after replication.
migrate Sentry permissions to Ranger.noteTo perform the Sentry policy replication, you must be running the
                            Sentry service on CDH 5.12 or higher, or any CDH 6.x
                        version.

Some use cases where you can use Hive replication policies include:
Backing up data periodically.
Performing a recovery operation when necessary.
Creating a development and test system for engineers to run quality
                        checks.


HBase replication policies
You can create these policies to replicate HBase data from a source classic
                cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base cluster), COD, or Data Hub to a target Data
                Hub or COD cluster. You can also copy or replicate HBase data between different
                environments within a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) using these policies. Any future
                data change in the source cluster is pushed to the target cluster automatically
                without user intervention.
Some use cases where you can use HBase replication policies include:
Performing an active-active disaster recovery with conflict resolution
                        (enabling other disaster recovery use cases which provides an efficient
                        utilization of resources).
Copying required data to the cloud clusters for heavy-duty analytics
                        workloads which helps to optimize on-premises cluster performance.
Utilizing the continuous data synchronize feature to implement a hybrid
                        cloud that in turn helps you to use it in various other use cases.


CDP CLI for HDFS and Hive replication policies
You can also use CDP CLI commands to create HDFS and Hive replication
                policies. The CDP CLI commands for Replication Manager are under the
                    replicationmanager CDP CLI option. For more information,
                see CDP CLI for Replication Manager.
CDP CLI is a unified tool to manage all the CDP services. This gives you
                the flexibility to use it across services from a single pane, view required
                information in a single scroll (for example, you can view all available clusters’
                service status in a single page), and collaborate to troubleshoot issues.


Related informationHow replication policies workSupport matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public CloudHBase replication policyCDP CLI for Replication Manager