Hive replication policyCloudera Docs
Hive replication policy
You can create a Hive replication policy  in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager
        after you configure the required Ranger policy in Ranger, register the on-premises cluster
        (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base) as a classic cluster in Management Console, register cloud
        account credentials in the Replication Manager service, verify cluster access, and configure
        minimum ports for replication. The replication load happens on the source on-premises
        cluster. You can replicate data on-premises to the cloud with a single cluster if the
        Metastore is running on the cloud.
These policies support table-level replication and can replicate Hive external
            tables from on-premises clusters (CDH and CDP Private Cloud Base) to cloud storage such
            as S3 and ABFS and to Data Hubs. They also can:
replicate data stored in Hive tables, Hive metadata, data in Hive
                    metastore, and Impala metadata (catalog server metadata) associated with Impala
                    tables registered in the Hive metastore, andnoteHive2
                        managed tables are converted to external tables after
                    replication.
migrate Sentry permissions to Ranger.noteTo
                        perform the Sentry policy replication, you must be running the Sentry
                        service on CDH 5.12 or higher, or any CDH 6.x version.

Hive metadata replication involves multiple entities. Replication Manager supports
            replication of external tables in Hive. Hive supports replication of external tables to
            the target cluster and it retains all the properties of external tables. The data files
            permission and ownership are preserved so that the relevant external processes can
            continue to write in it even after failover.
importantBefore you create Hive replication policies, you
            must ensure that the required Ranger policy is set in Ranger and see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public
                Cloud to verify whether your clusters are supported by Replication
            Manager.
You can also use CDP CLI commands to create Hive replication policies. The CDP CLI
            commands for Replication Manager are under the replicationmanager
            CDP CLI option. For more information, see CDP CLI for Replication
            Manager.
The Apache Ranger access policy model consists of the following components:
Specification of the resources that you can apply to a replication
                    policy which includes the HDFS files and directories; Hive databases, tables,
                    and columns; and HBase tables, column-families, and columns.
Specification of access conditions for specific users and groups.

You must set the Ranger policy for the hdfs user on the target
            cluster to perform all operations on all databases and tables. The same user role is
            used to import Hive Metastore. The hdfs user should have access
            to all Hive datasets, including all operations. Otherwise, Hive import fails during the
            replication process.
On the target cluster, the hive user must have Ranger admin
            privileges. The same hive user performs the metadata import
            operation.
For more information about Hive replication policies to replicate data from CDH clusters
            to CDP Public Cloud, see Migrate Hive data from CDH to CDP Public Cloud
            blog.

Hive replicationReplication Manager allows you to replicate Hive databases from a source cluster to a   target location on a destination cluster. The first time you run a job with data that has not been   previously replicated, the Replication Manager creates a new folder or database and bootstraps the   data. To replicate Hive metadata, Replication Manager performs a full replication. To replicate   the data stored in Hive tables, Replication Manager uses snapshot diff-based replication to   perform incremental replication. Hive tablesManaged tables are Hive owned tables where the entire lifecycle of the tables' data         are managed and controlled by Hive. External tables are tables where Hive has loose coupling         with the data. Replication Manager replicates external tables successfully to a target         cluster, and the Hive2 managed tables are converted to external tables after         replication.Hive cloud replicationReplication Manager supports replication of the Hive database from a cluster with     underlying HDFS to another cluster with cloud storage. It uses push-based replication, with the     replication job running on the cluster with HDFS. Table-level replicationTo enable table-level replication, you must specify the list of tables to be         replicated in a given replication policy. Table-level replication enables you to replicate         just the critical tables. It also helps you to speed-up the replication process and also         reduces network bandwidth utilization.Migrate Sentry authorization policies into RangerDuring Hive replication, Replication Manager migrates Sentry authorization                 policies into Ranger as part of the replication policy.