HDFS snapshotsCloudera Docs
HDFS snapshots
You can schedule taking HDFS snapshots for replication in the Replication Manager.
            HDFS snapshots are read-only point-in-time copies of the filesystem. You can enable
            snapshots on the entire filesystem, or on a subtree of the filesystem. In Replication
            Manager, you take snapshots at a dataset level. Understanding how snapshots work and
            some of the benefits and costs involved can help you to decide whether or not to enable
            snapshots.
To improve the performance and consistency of HDFS replications, enable the HDFS
                  replication source directories for snapshots, and for Hive replications, enable
                  the Hive warehouse directory for snapshots. For more information, see HDFS snapshots.
Enabling snapshots on a folder requires HDFS admin permissions because it impacts the
                  NameNode. When you enable snapshots, all the subdirectories are automatically
                  enabled for snapshots as well. So when you create a snapshot copy of a directory,
                  all content in that directory including the subdirectories is included as part of
                  the copy. If a directory contains snapshots but the directory is no longer
                  snapshot-enabled, you must delete the snapshots before you enable the snapshot
                  capability on the directory.
Take snapshots on the highest-level parent directory that is snapshot-enabled.
                  Snapshot operations are not allowed on a directory if one of its parent
                  directories is already snapshot-enabled (snapshottable) or if descendants already
                  contain snapshots.
For example, in the following directory tree image, if
                        directory-1 is snapshot-enabled but you want to
                  replicate subdirectory-2, you cannot select only
                        subdirectory-2 for replication. You must select
                        directory-1 for your replication policy.



There is no limit to the number of snapshot-enabled directories you can have. A
                  snapshot-enabled directory can accommodate 65,536 simultaneous snapshots. Blocks
                  in datanodes are not copied during snapshot replication. The snapshot files record
                  the block list and the file size. There is no data copying.
When snapshots are initially created, a directory named
                        .snapshot is created on the source and destination
                  clusters under the directory being copied. All snapshots are retained within
                        .snapshot directories. By default, the last three
                  snapshots of a file or directory are retained. Snapshots older than the last three
                  are automatically deleted.

Requirements and benefits of HDFS snapshotsYou might want to consider the benefits and memory cost of using snapshots. Verify         the requirements before you enable snapshots. Enabling and taking snapshots in Cloudera ManagerBefore you take snapshots (in Cloudera Manager) for HDFS directories, you must enable         snapshots for the directories in Cloudera Manager.Parent topic: HDFS replication policy