Migrate Sentry authorization policies into RangerCloudera Docs
Migrate Sentry authorization policies into Ranger 
During Hive replication, Replication Manager migrates Sentry authorization
                policies into Ranger as part of the replication policy.
The Sentry service serves authorization metadata from the database-backed storage
                        but does not handle actual privilege validation. The Hive and Impala
                        services are clients of this service and it enforces Sentry privileges when
                        the services are configured to use Sentry. Replication Manager allows
                        administrators to migrate the existing Sentry permissions from the source
                        CDH cluster to the Ranger policies in CDP Public Cloud.
When you create a replication policy, you can choose to migrate the Sentry
                        policies for the resources that you want to migrate. During replication
                        policy job run, the resources and its Sentry policies are migrated to the
                        destination cluster. To migrate the Sentry policies for the resources,
                        select the Include Sentry Permissions with Metadata
                        option in the Additional Settings page of the
                                Create Replication Policy wizard. 
note
To perform the Sentry policy replication, you must be running the Sentry
                                service on CDH 5.12 or higher, or any CDH 6.x version. 

The Sentry Permissions section of the Create
                                Replication Policy wizard has the following options: 


Include Sentry Permissions with Metadata
                                        migrates the Sentry permissions during the replication job
                                        run.
Exclude Sentry Permissions with Metadata
                                        ensures that the Sentry permissions are not migrated during
                                        the replication job. 
Choose Skip URI Privileges if you do not
                                        want to include URI privileges when you migrate Sentry
                                        permissions. During migration, the URI privileges are
                                        translated to point to an equivalent location in S3. If the
                                        resources have a different location in Amazon S3, do not
                                        migrate the URI privileges because the URI privileges might
                                        not be valid.


The following image shows the Sentry Permissions section
                        in the Create Replication Policy wizard:





The following steps are completed during the migration of Sentry policies into
                        Ranger: 


The Export operation runs in the source
                                        cluster. During this operation, the Sentry permissions are
                                        fetched and exported to a JSON file. This file might be in a
                                        local file system or HDFS or S3, based on the configuration. 
The Translate and Ingest operations take
                                        place on the target cluster. In the translate operation,
                                        Sentry permissions are translated into a format that can be
                                        read by Ranger. The permissions are then imported into
                                        Ranger. When the permissions are imported, they are tagged
                                        with the source cluster name and the time that the ingest
                                        took place. After the import, the file containing the
                                        permissions is deleted. noteDuring
                                                Hive replication from an on-premises CDH cluster to
                                                a cloud cluster, the Replication Manager migrates
                                                Sentry authorization policies into Ranger as part of
                                                the replication policy. However, no import operation
                                                is initiated if the end service in the cloud cluster
                                                (AWS) is Sentry.


A Ranger policy is created for each resource, such as a database, table, or
                        column. The policy name is derived from the resource name. For example, if
                        the resource is Database:dinosaurs, table= theropods, then
                        the derived policy name is
                                database=dinosarus->table=theropods.
The priority for migrated policies is set to normal in Ranger. The normal
                        priority allows you to create another policy for the same resource that
                        overrides the policy that is imported from Sentry.

Sentry to Ranger permissionsThere are no one-to-one mapping between Sentry privileges and Ranger service policies,   therefore the Sentry privileges are translated to their equivalents within the Ranger service   policies.Parent topic: Hive replication policy