Replication Manager terminologyCloudera Docs
Replication Manager
      terminology 
Replication Manager is a
      service that can be accessed through the CDP Public Cloud web interface in Cloudera Data
      Platform. You can create replication policies in Replication Manager. You can also use CDP CLI
      commands to create replication policies.


Term
Description



Replication Manager Service
The web UI that runs on the Cloudera Data Platform
                     host.


Data center
The facility that contains the computer, server, and storage systems and
                     associated infrastructure, such as routers and switches. Corporate data is
                     stored, managed, and distributed from the data center.In an
                        on-premises environment, a data center is often composed of a CDH cluster or
                        CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. However, a single data center can contain
                        multiple on-premises clusters.


Cloud data lake or data lake
A CDP cluster on the cloud, using virtual machines, with data retained on
                     cloud storage. A cloud data lake requires minimal services for metadata and
                     governance, such as Hive metastore, Ranger, and Atlas.


Cloud storage
A storage retained in a cloud account, such as Amazon S3 web service or
                     Microsoft Azure.


On-premises cluster
A CDH cluster in a data center or a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster, with
                     Apache services running, such as HDFS, Yarn, HMS, Hiveserver2, Ranger, and
                     Atlas. Replication behavior is similar to IaaS cluster replication. The data is
                     on local HDFS.


Replication policy
A set of rules applied to a replication relationship. The rules include
                     which clusters serve as source and destination, the type of data to replicate,
                     the schedule for replicating data, and so on.


Job
An instance of a replication policy that is running or is completed


Source cluster
The cluster that contains the source data that is replicated to a
                     destination cluster. Source data could be an HDFS dataset, Hive database, or
                     HBase tables.


Target cluster
The cluster to which the data is replicated.



Related informationHow replication policies workHDFS replication policyHive replication policyHBase replication policySupport matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public Cloud