Access Replication Manager in CDP Public CloudCloudera Docs
Access Replication Manager in CDP Public Cloud
You can access the Replication Manager service by logging into Cloudera Data
        Platform. 
When you log into Cloudera Data Platform, the CDP
                Public Cloud web interface appears. Click Replication
                Manager to view the Overview page of the
            Replication Manager.
Replication Manager has the following pages:
Overview
Classic Clusters
Cloud Credentials
Replication Policies

The following image shows the CDP Public Cloud web interface:



You can also access the Replication Manager service by logging into the
                Management Console. In the Management
                Console, click  and select Replication Manager.

Overview pageWhen you click Replication Manager on the CDP Public Cloud web interface, the         Overview page appears. The page provides a snapshot of the Replication Manager service. It         provides insights into issues and updates related to various entities and resources through         dashboards like Classic Clusters, Replication Policies, Notifications, and so on. Classic Clusters pageThe Classic Clusters page       specifies the total number of clusters enabled for Replication Manager, the number of clusters       that are in an error state, the number of clusters that are active, and the number of clusters       for which a warning is issued.Cloud Credentials pageThe Cloud Credentials page shows the registered cloud credentials for Replication         Manager. To replicate data to or from a storage cloud account, you must register the cloud         credentials, so that the Replication Manager can access your cloud account. The supported         cloud storage accounts are Amazon S3 and Azure Blob Filesystem (ABFS). On the Cloud         Credentials page, you can add cloud credentials. You can also update or delete the         credentials when necessary. Replication Policies pageThe "Replication Policies" page shows the number of replication policies that are         active, the number of policies that have been suspended, the number of policies that are in         error state, and the total number of replication policies available in Replication Manager.         The page also provides a detailed view about the replication policies.