Installing CCP Using AmbariCloudera DocsInstalling CCP Using
        Ambari
Installing Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP) using Apache Ambari uses both the
        graphic user interface of Ambari and the Metron user interface. Both of these tools promote
        a faster installation that preinstalls much of the configuration you need.Prerequisites for an Existing ClusterYou can install Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP) on an Ambari-managed cluster       running HDP 3.1.4 and Ambari 2.7.3 (or later). However, the cluster must meet requirements for       both the Hadoop cluster and the Metron nodes.Set up the REST Application DatabasePrior to installing Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP), you must set up the REST     application database.Install CCP on an Ambari ClusterPrior to installing the Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP), you must meet CCP's       requirements for the cluster, Metron node, and Ambari server.Install, Configure, and Deploy a HDP Cluster with CCPYou can use the Ambari Install wizard running in your browser to install, configure,       and deploy your cluster.Switch to LDAP Access PrivilegesCCP defaults to Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) to define access privileges. You can       easily switch to using LDAP.Import Apache Zeppelin Notebook Using AmbariIf you would like to install Apache Zeppelin, complete the following steps after you       have successfully installed CCP. You can use the Apache Zeppelin dashboard to view and analyze       telemetry data provided by CCP.Streaming Data into CCPTo prepare for Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP) to ingest data source data into       CCP, you must stream each raw event stream from the telemetry data source into its own       individual Kafka topic. This applies to the telemetry data sources for which CCP includes       parsers (for example, Bro, Snort, and YAF). Even though CCP includes parsers for these data       sources, CCP does not install these data sources or ingest the raw data. This is something       that you must do.Verify That CCP Deployed Successfully for Ambari InstallAfter you install Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP), you need to verify that your       services are displayed in Ambari and that you can access the Metron Dashboard.Open the Metron DashboardAfter you install and configure CCP, you can load and launch the Metron dashboard. The       Metron dashboard enables you to identify, investigate, and analyze cybersecurity data. Opening the Management User InterfaceYou can use the CCP Management user interface to add and configure telemetry parsers       to Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP). You can launch the UI either from Ambari or from a       browser.Opening the Alerts User InterfaceYou can use the Alerts user interface to display, filter, and sort events and their       associated fields. You can also use the UI to escalate, add comments to, and group       events.Troubleshooting Your InstallationIf you encounter errors or issues during your Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP)       installation, you can uninstall your installation. Optimization GuidelinesIn any Storm-based platform, there are many parameters that control the system’s       performance. The values of these parameters vary greatly with differences in cluster size and       data velocity. You will need to ensure that you have a properly tuned index is key to overall       system performance. See the Storm user guide for detailed discussion.