Install, Configure, and Deploy a HDP Cluster with CCPCloudera Docs
Install, Configure, and
      Deploy a HDP Cluster with CCP
You can use the Ambari Install wizard running in your browser to install, configure,
      and deploy your cluster.
To keep your changes to the indices writer, you must stop or
         restart the indexing topology only through Ambari. If you start or stop the indices writer
         through REST, the writer resets its settings to the Elasticsearch default
         settings.

 Open Ambari Web using a web browser. 


 Point your browser to
                        http://<your.ambari.server>:8080, where
                        <your.ambari.server> is the name of your ambari server host. 
For example, a default Ambari server host is located at
                        http://c6401.ambari.apache.org:8080.


 Log in to the Ambari Server using the default user name/password:
                        admin/admin.
You can change these credentials later.
For a new cluster, the Ambari install wizard displays a Welcome page from
                     which you launch the Ambari Install wizard.



 For an existing cluster, select Choose Services from the
                  Actions/Add Service Wizard menu and skip to Step 7.
            

 From the Ambari Welcome page, choose Launch Install Wizard.
            

 In Name your cluster, type a name for the cluster you want
               to create, and then click NEXT. 
Avoid white spaces or special characters in the name.

Select the HDP stack you want to run.

Remove the base URL operating system information for any OSs you will not be
               running, and then click NEXT.

 Use the Target Hosts text box to enter your list of host
               names, one per line. 
You can use ranges inside brackets to indicate larger sets of hosts. For example,
               for host-01.domain through host-10.domain use host-[01-10].domain

noteIf you are deploying on EC2, use the internal Private DNS host names.


If you want to let Ambari automatically install the Ambari Agent on all your hosts
               using SSH,in the Host Registration Information section, select
                  Provide your SSH Private Key to automatically register
                  hosts and either use the Choose File button to
               find the private key file that matches the public key you installed earlier on all
               your hosts or cut and paste the key into the text box manually.

noteIf you are using Internet Explorer 9, the Choose File button
                  might not appear. Use the text box to cut and paste your private key manually.
                  Fill in the user name for the SSH key you have selected. If you do not want to use
                  root , you must provide the user name for an account that can execute sudo without
                  entering a password.


Click Register and Confirm to continue then click
                  OK to confirm the host name pattern expressions.

Click NEXT to move to the Choose
                  Services dialog box that lists the services that Ambari can install
               onto the cluster.

Choose the services to install onto the cluster, and then click
                  Next. 
You can ignore any limited functionality warnings and click PROCEED
                  ANYWAY.





CCP requires the following services:


HDFS
Yarn + MapReduce2
Tez
Hive
HBase
ZooKeeper
Storm
Ambari Metrics
Kafka
Spark2
Zeppelin Notebook
Elasticsearch or Solr Elasticsearch can be installed either manually or by
                        Ambari. We recommend installing Elasticsearch by Ambari.
Kibana (Can be installed either manually or by Ambari. Hortonworks recommends
                     installing Kibana by Ambari.)
Metron
HDFS


Ambari displays the Assign Masters window.

Use the Assign Masters window to assign the Master
               components to the appropriate hosts in your cluster.


All Metron components must reside on the same node.
The node containing the Metron components must have a Kafka broker.
The node containing the Metron components must have a ZooKeeper server.







If Ambari detects any errors in your master component assignments, it will
               indicate the error in red.


To change the host assignment for a service, select a host name from the
                     drop-down menu for that service.


To remove a ZooKeeper instance, click the green minus icon next to the host
                     address you want to remove.


When you are satisfied with the assignments, click
                        Next.
Ambari displays the Assign Slaves and Clients
                     window.



Use the Assign Slaves and Clients window to assign cluster
               nodes (DataNodes, NodeManagers, and RegionServers) to run with worker processes such
               as Elasticsearch. 
The node containing the Metron host must have a Supervisor.


Use all or none to select all of the hosts in the column or none of the
                     hosts, respectively.

If a host has an asterisk next to it, that host is also running one or more
                        master components. Hover your mouse over the asterisk to see which master
                        components are on that host.



Select a minimum of one Elasticsearch data node. 
The data node cannot be on same host as the
                     master.


Select Supervisor for all data nodes.
Supervisor is used by Storm to run the topologies, so selecting Supervisor
                     on all of the nodes enables you to distribute the workload among the
                     nodes.


Fine-tune your selections by using the check boxes next to specific
                     hosts.



When you are satisfied with your assignments, click
                        NEXT.



Assign a username and password for any services that require credentials. 


No changes are necessary for the DATABASES,
                  DIRECTORIES, and ACCOUNTS windows,
               so click NEXT to proceed to the next window.
Ambari displays the SETTINGS window.

Click  at the
               top right of the SETTINGS window to list the configuration
               properties you must set to proceed with the installation:


Click EDIT to display the appropriate window for each item
               in the list and provide the required information.

After you have completed configuring the required properties, click the
                  BACK button to display the ALL
                  CONFIGURATIONS window, then click METRON to
               display the Metron configurations.
You might need to click the arrow button to see METRON:


If you are using Elasticsearch, you must provide the Elasticsearch Host name under
               the INDEX SETTINGS tab in the  Elasticsearch
                  Hosts field.

You must either set up your JDBC information or enable LDAP prior to deploying
               METRON:


To set up your JDBC information, provide the required information under the
                        REST tab:



Metron REST port
Use 8082.
Metron JDBC URL
jdbc:mysql://mysql_host:3306/metronrest
Metron JDBC Driver
com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
You can choose between the following databases for the REST
                                 configuration.
PostgreSQL
MySQL
H2
Oracle

Metron JDBC Username
Metron REST user name
Metron JDBC Password
Metron REST password
Metron JDBC client path
<MYSQL_JAVA_CONNECTOR_PATH>/mysql-connector-java-5.1.41-bin.jar




To switch to using LDAP to define access privileges see Switch to LDAP
                        Access Privileges.
Now, when you go to Swagger or the UIs, you should be able to view
                     your assigned roles and permissions.



Browse through each service tab to determine if you want to provide any additional
               configuration information.
Most of the fields in the Advanced tab are auto populated
               and should not be modified.

OPTIONAL: Configure the PCAP topology by setting your PCAP properties in the
                  PCAP tab.


 Check the assignments displayed by Ambari to ensure that everything is correct,
               and then click Deploy. 
If you need to make changes, use the BACK button to return
               to the appropriate screen.

The progress of the install displays on the screen. Ambari installs, starts, and
               runs a simple test on each component. Overall status of the process displays in a
               progress bar at the top of the screen and host-by-host status displays in the main
               section. Do not refresh your browser during this process. Refreshing the browser
               might interrupt the progress indicators.

OPTIONAL: To see specific information on what tasks have been completed per
               host, click the link in the Message column for the appropriate
               host. In the Tasks pop-up, click the individual task to see
               the related log files. You can select filter conditions by using the
                  Show drop-down list. To see a larger version of the log
               contents, click the Open icon or, to copy the contents to the
               clipboard, use the Copy icon.

 When Successfully installed and started the services appears,
               click NEXT. 


Parent topic: Installing CCP Using Ambari