Add and configure the SMM NodeCloudera Docs
Add and configure the SMM Node
There are a number of required configurations you must make
        before you complete the SMM installation. 

It is recommended that you add SMM to a management node on your cluster. For
                performance optimization, it is not recommended that you add it to a node where a
                Kafka Broker is running. 
You will be installing two SMM roles on the same node: SMM REST Server, and
                SMM-UI.



You have installed NPM and the forever module on the SMM host.
You have configured Cloudera Manager and Service Monitor memory.
You have obtained the Kafka service name.



From the Cloudera Manager Home page, select the
                    drop-down to the right of your cluster, and select Add a
                        Service and select Streams Messaging Manager. You may install
                    one service at a time.

Select your service dependencies:


If you plan to enable Kerberos, select HDFS, Kafka, Sentry, and
                            ZooKeeper.
If you do not plan to enable Kerberos, select Kafka, and ZooKeeper.



Select Streams Messaging Manager from your cluster, and then select the
                        Configuration tab.

Configure the following required properties:



Property
Description



streams.messaging.manager.storage.connector.connectURI

Specify the SMM database connector URL. For example:
                      jdbc:mysql://FQDN_MYHSQL:3306/streamsmsgmgr, 
jdbc:postgresql://FQDN_POSTGRES:5432/streamsmsgmgr



streams.messaging.manager.storage.connector.user

Specify the Streams Messaging Manager storage connector
                                            user.



streams.messaging.manager.storage.connector.password

Specify the Streams Messaging Manager storage connector
                                            password.



streams.messaging.manager.kafka.client.security.protocol

Specify the correct option based on the Kafka security
                                            protocol:


If Kafka is not secured, choose
                                                  PLAINTEXT


If Kafka is Kerberos and SSL enabled,
                                                  choose Inferred or SASL_SSL
If Kafka has Kerberos but no SSL,
                                                  choose SASL_PLAINTEXT
If Kafka has no Kerberos but does have
                                                  SSL enabled, choose SSL





cm.metrics.protocol

Set the value to https if TLS is
                                            enabled for Cloudera Manager. If TLS is not enabled, the
                                            value is http.



cm.metrics.host

Specify Cloudera Manager's FQDN host name.



cm.metrics.port

Specify Cloudera Manager's port number. By default, this
                                            is 7183 if TLS is configured and 7180 if it is not.



cm.metrics.password

Specify the Cloudera Manager password.



cm.metrics.service.name

Specify the Cloudera Manager Kafka service name. Provide
                                            the name of the Kafka service you obtained before you
                                            began SMM configuration.
See Obtain the Kafka service name for more
                                            information.



Schema Registry API
                                            url

Specify the URL for the Schema Registry REST API. For
                                            example:
https://localhost:7790/api/v1





Click Finish and once SMM is running restart Cloudera
                    Manager if prompted to do so.


Parent topic: Add and Configure SMM