Add and Configure SRMCloudera Docs
Add and Configure SRM
 Learn how to add SRM to your cluster.

Streams Replication Manager is comprised of two roles:
Streams Replication Manager Driver role: This role is responsible for
            connecting to the specified clusters and performing replication between them. The driver
            can be installed on one or more hosts.
Streams Replication Manager Service role: This role consist of a REST API and a
            Kafka Streams application to aggregate and expose cluster, topic and consumer group
            metrics. The service can be installed on one host only.
You can install Streams Replication Manager independent of the clusters that
        replication is happening between.
The following steps walk you through the process of adding SRM to your  cluster. The
        configuration examples on this page are simple examples that are meant to demonstrate the
        type of information that you have to enter. For  comprehensive deployment  and configuration
        examples, see Deployment recommendations and Configuration examples.
noteDo not confuse Streams Replication Manager, which is a service managed by Cloudera
        Manager, with the Streams Replication Manager Service role, which is a role within Streams
        Replication Manager. 

If Kafka is configured to use Sentry authorization, make sure
      that streamsrepmgr is added to the Kafka Super users
      property.
      

From the Cloudera Manager Home page, select the drop-down to the
          right of your cluster, and select Add a Service.
Select Streams Replication Manager from the list of services and click
            Continue. 
Assign role instances to hosts: 

noteIn certain cases role names on this page are incorrectly displayed and may become
            truncated. The Streams Replication Manager Driver role is the
            role displayed on the left, while the Streams Replication Manager
              Service role is the role displayed on the right.



Click the field below Streams Replication Manager Driver to
              display a dialog box containing a list of hosts.


Select 1 or more hosts that the Streams Replication Manager
                Driver should be assigned to and Click Ok.


Click the field below Streams Replication Manager Service to
              display a dialog box containing a list of hosts.


Select 1 host that the Streams Replication Manager Service
              should be assigned to and Click Ok.


Click Continue.Specify cluster aliases:
          
Find the Streams Replication Manager
                Cluster alias. property.
Add a comma
              delimited list of cluster aliases. For example:
primary, secondary
Cluster aliases are arbitrary names
              defined by the user. Aliases specified here are used in other configuration properties
              and with the srm-control tool to refer to the clusters added for
              replication.
Specify cluster connection
          information:
Find the
                streams.replication.manager's replication configs
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines
              for each cluster alias you have specified in the Streams Replication
                Manager Cluster alias. property
Add connection information for your
              clusters. For example:
primary.bootstrap.servers=primary_host1:9092,primary_host2:9092,primary_host3:9092
secondary.bootstrap.servers=secondary_host1:9092,secondary_host2:9092,secondary_host3:9092

Each cluster has to be added to a new line. If a cluster has multiple hosts, add
                them to the same line but delimit them with commas.

Add and enable
          replications:
Find the
                streams.replication.manager's replication configs
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines
              for each unique replication you want to add and enable.
Add and enable your replications. For example:
primary->secondary.enabled=true
secondary->primary.enabled=true


Specify the Streams Replication Manager Service role target cluster:
Find the streams replication manager service target
                cluster property. 
Add the target cluster alias. For example: 
secondary


The
            target cluster is where the service gathers replication information from. Cloudera
            recommends that you deploy the service on every cluster and configure each instance of
            the service to target the cluster that it is running on.
Optional: Specify the Streams Replication Manager Driver role target
          clusters:
Find the streams
                replication manager driver target cluster property.
Add the cluster aliases that you want
              the driver role to target. For
              example:
primary, secondary


You can use the streams replication manager driver target
              cluster property to specify a subset of clusters that the driver should
            target or in other words write to. When this property is left empty (default) the driver
            will read from and write to all clusters added to SRMs configuration. When this property
            is set, the driver will collect data from all clusters, but will only write to the
            clusters specified in this property. This property becomes essential when you have an
            advanced deployment  as it allows you to distribute replication workloads. 
Configure properties not
          exposed in Cloudera Manager: SRM accepts a number of additional configuration properties that are not
          available in Cloudera Manager. Depending on your requirements you may need to configure
          these properties as well. You can find a comprehensive list of these properties in
            Configuration Properties Reference. 
Find the
                streams.replication.manager's replication configs
              property.
Click the add button and add
              new lines for each additional property you want to configure.
Add configuration
              properties. For example:
replication.factor=3

Depending on your requirement, review and configure other properties available on
          this page.Click Continue and wait until Streams Replication Manager is
          started.Click Continue then click Finish.
        


Replicating data to or from the specified clusters is now possible.
The SRM service REST API Swagger UI is available at one of the following addresses:

http://<srm-service-host>:<srm-service-port/swagger


https://<srm-service-host>:<srm-service-port/swagger







Enable Kerberos and TLS/SSL for SRM.
Use the srm-control tool to kick off replication by adding topics or
          groups to the allowlist.



Related informationConfiguration Properties Referencesrm-controlConfiguration ExamplesParent topic: Add and Configure SRM