Add unsecure Accumulo on CDP service to your clusterCloudera Docs
Add unsecure Accumulo on CDP service to your cluster
If your cluster is not an SASL enabled Kerberized cluster, add an unsecure Accumulo
        on CDP service to your cluster when installing Operational Database powered by Apache
        Accumulo (OpDB). 



Install OpDB CSD file.
Install CDP and add the HDFS and ZooKeeper services to your deployment.
Install the OpDB parcel.




Navigate to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console home
                    page.

Click the action menu of the cluster to which you want to add the Accumulo on
                    CDP service (for example, Cluster 1), and select Add
                        Service.






Select Accumulo on CDP and click
                        Continue.

Select the dependent services and click Continue.

Assign the Accumulo roles to the hosts in your cluster:


Assign a Table Server role on each host to which
                            the DataNode role is assigned.
Assign the Monitor, Garbage
                                Collector, Tracer, and
                                Master role to
                                non-DataNodes.
Assign the Gateway role to any hosts where you
                            want to use the Accumulo on CDP service, and where you do not already
                            have any other OpDB roles assigned.



Click Continue.

Configure the Accumulo Instance Secret.

importantCloudera recommends to protect this information, because
                        the security of the Accumulo service relies on it.


Set the Accumulo Instance Name.

Set the Trace User and Trace
                        Password settings.
It is  recommended that you not leave the Trace User set to
                    root, because this is not a secure configuration.

If this is the first installation of OpDB, ensure that the Initial
                        Accumulo option is selected.

Click Continue.

Wait while Cloudera Manager does the initial service setup.

Click Continue.

Click Finish.

Ensure that the trace user and trace table
            exist.

Parent topic: Add Accumulo on CDP service