Configuring Dedicated Coordinators and ExecutorsCloudera Docs
Configuring Dedicated Coordinators and Executors
Configure a dedicated coordinator and a dedicated executor roles
    to improve scalability of Impala. 
Guidelines for Dedicated Coordinators and Executors


Dedicated coordinator:

 Should be on an edge node with no other services running on it. 
 Does not need large local disks but still needs some that can
              be used for Spilling. 
 Require at least the same or even larger memory allocation than
              executors. 




(Dedicated)Executors:

 Should be co-located with DataNodes. 
 The number of hosts with dedicated executors typically
                increases as the cluster grows larger and handles more table
                partitions, data files, and concurrent queries. 






In Cloudera Manager,  navigate to
              Clusters > Impala > Configuration > Role
              Groups. Click Create to create two role groups
          with the following values. 

Group for Coordinators


Group Name: Coordinators 

Role Type: Impala Daemon 

Copy from: 
 Select Impala Daemon Default
                        Group if you want the existing configuration
                      gets carried over to the Coordinators. 
 Select None if you want to start
                      with a blank configuration. 





Group for Executors


Group Name: Executors 

Role Type: Impala Daemon 

Copy from: 
 Select Impala Daemon Default
                        Group if you want the existing configuration
                      gets carried over to the Executors. 
 Select None if you want to start
                      with a blank configuration. 







In the Role Groups page, click Impala Daemon Default Group.


Select the set of nodes intended to be coordinators.


Click Action for Selected and select Move To Different Role Group….
Select the Coordinators.




Select the set of nodes intended to be Executors.


Click Action for Selected and select Move To Different Role Group….
Select the Executors.





Click Configuration. In the search field, type Impala Daemon Specialization.

Click Edit Individual Values.

For Coordinators role group, select COORDINATOR_ONLY.

For Executors role group, select
            EXECUTOR_ONLY.

Click Save Changes and then restart the Impala service.


Related informationDedicated Coordinator