Using Zeppelin to Analyze DataCloudera Docs
Using Zeppelin to Analyze Data
Zeppelin enables you to analyze the enriched telemetry information Metron archives in
      HDFS.

Bro produces data about a number of different network protocols. View which types
               of protocols exist in the data.


View when Bro telemetry information was received.
You can check for any odd gaps and fluctuating periods of high and low
               activity.

noteIf there is not enough data for this visualization to be interesting, let
                  Metron consume more data before continuing.



Bro Telemetry Received




List the most active Bro hosts.


Most Active Hosts




List any DNS servers running on non-standard ports.


DNS Servers




List any mime types that could be concerning.


Mime Types




Explode the HTTP records.
Each HTTP record can contain multiple mime types. These need to be 'exploded' to
               work with them properly.


Exploded HTTP Records




Determine where application/x-dosexec originated.


Suspicious xdosexc




Take a look at the requests for x-dosexc.


x-dosexc Requests




Determine when the interactions with the suspicious host are occurring.


When Interactions Occur




Create an IP report in Zeppelin using the Metron IP Report notebook.
For a given IP address, this notebook produces a report of:
Most frequent connections (YAF defaults to 24 hours)
Recent connections (Yaf, defaults to 1 hours)
Top DNS queries (Bro, defaults to 24 hours)
All ports used (Yaf, defaults to 24 hours)
HTTP user agents (Bro, defaults to 24 hours)


Create traffic connection request report using the Connection Volume Report
               notebook.
This notebook lets the user get connection counts filtered by a CIDR block. This
               notebook can be used for Bro, Yaf, and Snort.

Through this brief analysis we uncovered something that
         looks suspicious. So far we have leveraged only the geo-enriched Bro telemetry. From here,
         we can start to explore other sources of telemetry to better understand the scope and
         overall exposure. Continue to investigate our suspicions with the other sources of
         telemetry available in Metron.

Try loading the Snort data and see if any alerts were
                  triggered.


Load the flow telemetry and see what other internal assets have
                  been exposed to this suspicious actor.


If an internal asset has been compromised, investigate the
                  compromised asset's activity to uncover signs of internal reconnaissance or
                  lateral movement.



Zeppelin NotebooksCloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP) provides several notebooks that you can use to       analyze data and produce reports:Parent topic: Analyzing Enriched Data Using Apache Zeppelin Overview