Configuring the SRM client’s secure storageCloudera Docs
Configuring the SRM client’s secure storage
The SRM client’s secure storage is an intermediary keystore used to store sensitive
    security properties that are required to access the Kafka clusters that SRM connects to. If any
    of these clusters are secured, you need to set up and configure the secure storage, otherwise
    the srm-control tool will not function.

Based on the SRM service’s configuration, Cloudera Manager automatically generates a
        default configuration file that is used by the srm-control tool. The
        default configuration however does not contain any sensitive data (keystores, truststores,
        passwords) required to access the clusters. Instead, sensitive details are added to SRM’s
        secure storage, which is an intermediary keystore used to store sensitive data.
        Specifically, this secure storage will contain all the sensitive information required to
        access the Kafka clusters that SRM connects to and replicates. 
The SRM client’s secure storage is not automatically created or populated with all the
        necessary information. As a result, before you can start using the tool, you must set up and
        configure the secure storage. This is done by configuring various configuration properties
        of the SRM service in Cloudera Manager.




Ensure that you have reviewed the information available
          in Configuring srm-control and understand that the
          following step list is only one part of the full configuration workflow. Depending on your
          scenario, completing other configuration tasks might be required.


Ensure that setup and configuration of the SRM service
          is complete:

The Kafka clusters that SRM connects to are defined and are added to the SRM
                service’s configuration. This includes both external and co-located clusters.


Replications are configured.





In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters and select the Streams
          Replication Manager service.Go to Configuration.Click Gateway in the Filters
          pane.Find and configure the following properties: 

SRM Client's Secure Storage Password
The password used to access the secure storage. Take note of the password you
                configure. You need to provide it in your CLI session before running the tool.
Environment Variable Holding SRM Client's Secure Storage Password
The name of the environment variable that stores the secure storage password. Take
                note of the name that you configure. You need to set it in your CLI session before
                running the tool.

Click Save Changes.Re-deploy client configuration.
If your co-located cluster is secured, you must manually configure the sensitive
      properties required to access the co-located cluster. Continue with one of the following tasks
      depending on the security configuration of the co-located cluster. 
Configuring TLS/SSL properties
Configuring Kerberos properties
Configuring properties for non-Kerberos authentication mechanisms.
If the co-located cluster is not secured, continue with:
Setting the secure storage password as an environment variable


Related informationConfiguring TLS/SSL propertiesConfiguring Kerberos propertiesConfiguring properties for non-Kerberos authentication mechanismsSetting the secure storage password as an environment variableParent topic: Configuring srm-control