srm-controlCloudera Docs
srm-control
Learn how to use the srm-control command line tool which is used to
    manage replication of topics and consumer groups. 
The srm-control tool enables users to manage replication of topics and
      consumer groups. The tool has three subcommands topics,
        groups, and offsets. The topics
      subcommand is used to control which topics are replicated. The
        groups subcommand is used to control which consumer groups are replicated.
      The offsets subcommand is used to export translated offsets for a
        source->target cluster pair. 
The srm-control command line tool is located in
        /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/bin. An alternative is provided for it by
      default, it is called srm-control. Simply typing srm-control
      will invoke the tool, you do not need to reference its full path.importantDo not
        use the srm-driver, srm-service, and srm
        command line tools which are also located in the bin directory. Instead,
        use Cloudera Manager to manage the SRM driver and service.
If any of the Kafka clusters that SRM connects to use any type of encryption or
      authentication, you must configure the srm-control tool before use. For more
      information, see Configuring srm-control.
A full list of the available options for the tool can be found in
          srm-control Options Reference.

Related informationsrm-control Options ReferenceConfiguring srm-controlCloudera Manager automatically generates a configuration file for the srm-control tool.     If both the co-located and external Kafka clusters are unsecured, the default configuration can     be used, without making any changes. If however, any of the clusters taking part in the     replication process use any type of security, additional configuration is required.Topics and Groups SubcommandLearn how to use the topics and groups subcommand of     the srm-control command line tool.Offsets SubcommandLearn how to use the offsets subcommand of the       srm-client command line tool.Parent topic: SRM Command Line Tools