Fixed issues in Streams MessagingCloudera Docs
Fixed issues in Streams Messaging
Review the list of Streams Messaging issues that are resolved in Cloudera DataFlow for
    Data Hub 7.2.17.
Kafka


CDPD-29307: Kafka producer entity stays in incomplete state in
            Atlas
The Kafka-Atlas plugin now fully creates producer and consumer
            entities and does not generate incomplete ones.


CDPD-48822: AvroConverter ignores default values when converting
            from Avro to Connect schema
The AvroConverter now propagates field default
            values to Connect schemas.


OPSAPS-65485: Selecting the Require Connectors To Override Kafka
            Client JAAS Configuration property causes automatic Kafka Connect startup retries to
            fail 
Kafka Connect does not fail on start retries when the
              Require Connectors To Override Kafka Client JAAS Configuration
            property is selected.


CDPD-53179: Amazon S3 Sink connector fails when buffer size is
            reached 
The Amazon S3 Sink connector no longer fails when there is more
            than 5 MB (buffer size) of data available in a Kafka source topic and the connector
            receives more than 5 MB of data in a single poll.



Apache patch information


KAFKA-14838: Add flow/connector/task/role information to MM2 Kafka client.id
            configs



Schema Registry


CDPD-48568: JAR storage does not work on AWS S3 for Schema
            Registry
Schema Registry Amazon S3 JAR storage now functions
            correctly.


CDPD-49217 and CDPD-50309: Schema Registry caches user group
            membership indefinitely
Schema Registry now evicts Kerberos user and group information
            from its cache with a configurable time.


CDPD-54379: KafkaJsonSerializer and KafkaJsonDeserializer do not
            allow null values
The KafkaJsonSerializer and
              KafkaJsonDeserializer now properly translates null payloads as
            null.


CDPD-48822: AvroConverter ignores default values when converting
            from Avro to Connect schema
The AvroConverter now propagates field default
            values to Connect schemas.


CDPD-48888: Schema Registry generates redundant schemas when
            byte[] with default field exists
Schema Registry's schema normalization and fingerprinting
            mechanism has been enhanced to properly handle default values for bytes data types.


CDPD-53380: Schema Registry Client should retry the request on
            Knox gateway errors
The Schema Registry Client will retry Knox gateway related
            failed requests as defined by the request retry configuration.



Streams Messaging Manager


CDPD-46728: SMM UI shows the consumerGroup instead of the
            instances on the Profile page's right hand side
The Consumer Group Profile page now
            correctly shows the consumer instances on the right hand side. Previously the consumer
            groups were shown.


CDPD-46465: Searching for workers on the connector overview page
            freezes the page
Using the search field on the Connect > Cluster Profile tab no longer freezes the page.


CDPD-45406: The Connector Profile page of unassigned connectors
            is blank
The Connector Profile page of unassigned
            connectors are now correctly rendered and display that the connector is in an unassigned
            status.


CDPD-46073: Data Explorer loads indefinitely
The Data Explorer page no longer breaks if
            the partition parameter is manually removed from the URL.


CDPD-26633: The SMM API returns SMTP passwords of email
            notifiers in its response 
The /notifiers endpoint of the SMM API no
            longer returns the SMTP password in its responses. 


CDPD-49227: The Cluster Replications page crashes if the
            co-located cluster unknown to SRM
The Cluster Replications page is now
            correctly displayed even when the co-located Kafka cluster is unknown to SRM.


CDPD-56086: The Data Explorer modal displays the messages of the
            wrong topic
The Data Explorer modal that you open by
            clicking  on the Topics page now displays the messages of the
            selected topic.


CDPD-49696: Certain alerts may crash the Alerts page
Composite alerts with one of the conditions containing an
            assertion on cluster metrics no longer crashes the UI.



Streams Replication Manager
There are no fixed issues for Streams Replication Manager in Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub
          7.2.17.

Cruise Control


OPSAPS-66403: Cruise Control authenticated user are generated
            incorrectly
Cruise Control handles the different authentication levels for
            the users correctly. When users are added to higher authentication levels, the lower
            level permissions are also assigned. For example, an ADMIN level user automatically has
            USER and VIEWER permissions as well.




Parent topic: Fixed issues in Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub 7.2.17