Fixed issues in Streaming AnalyticsCloudera Docs
Fixed issues in Streaming Analytics
Review the list of Streaming Analytics issues that are resolved in Cloudera DataFlow for
    Data Hub 7.2.17.


CSA-4030 - Webhook sending fails when webhook template is empty
          string
The issue about creating a webhook table when the template is
          empty is fixed.


CSA-4333 - Use Kafka Timestamps switch reflects invalid value
The issue about incorrect status of the Kafka Timestamp
          configuration when viewing DDL is fixed.


CSA-4370 - Virtual tables imported from a JSON Schema in a Schema
          Catalog fail to describe correctly
The issue regarding the describe error for Virtual Tables using
          JSON and Avro schemas is fixed.


CSA-4400 - Cannot delete invalid catalog
The issue regarding invalid catalogs can be registered, but cannot
          be deleted is fixed.


CSA-4412 - Cannot delete mv endpoint when it contains dynamic
          parameters
The issue regarding Materialized View endpoint cannot be deleted
          when using dynamic parameters is fixed.


CSA-4425 - Password in Kafka Data Source can be revealed after
          save
The issue regarding viewing the password after saving the Kafka
          Data Source is fixed.


CSA-4426 - Kafka Data Source name accepts spaces
The issue about accepting Kafka Data Sources with spaces in their
          name is fixed.


CSA-4427 - State of Execute and Stop options in Job context menu
          do not correspond the Job state
The issue regarding the invalid property in the upsert Kafka table
          template is fixed.


CSA-4428 - upsert-kafka template has an invalid property
The issue regarding the invalid property in the upsert Kafka table
          template is fixed.


CSA-4548 - Files cannot be uploaded through Swagger
The issue about the error when uploading files using REST API with
          Swagger is fixed.


CSA-4620 - Encryption for environment properties
The issue regarding encrypted environment properties is
          fixed.


CSA-4643 - flink-yarn-session is ignoring command line
          parameters
The issue regarding the ignored parameters that added to the
          flink-yarn-session in command line is fixed.


FLINK-18027 - ROW value constructor cannot deal with complex
          expressions
The fix regarding the Calcite error in FLINK-18027 is
          backported.



Parent topic: Fixed issues in Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub 7.2.17