What's new in Flow ManagementCloudera Docs
What's new in Flow Management
Learn about the new Flow Management features in Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub 7.2.17.
Flow Management  in CDP Public Cloud 7.2.17 is
      based on Apache NiFi 1.21.0 and includes significant improvements and fixes. Here are the most
      important new features and improvements:

Schema Registry
For new clusters, a Schema Registry instance is provisioned on the management node next
          to Cloudera Manager and NiFi Registry. This allows you to leverage the Schema Registry
          capabilities without the need for a Streams Messaging Data Hub cluster.
Cloudera Schema Registry Controller Service
As the Hortonworks Schema Registry Controller Service will be removed in NiFi 2.0, a new
          Cloudera Schema Registry Controller Service is now available and you are invited to switch
          to the new controller service to prepare for the NiFi 2.0 release. For new clusters,
          Cloudera provisions default instances of the controller service that are pre-configured
          with the Schema Registry instance deployed in the cluster.
Java version
Starting with CDP 7.2.17, Java 8 and 11 are installed on the nodes by default. While
          Java 8 remains the default, it is possible to switch to another Java version for existing
          clusters, or after an upgrade. For more information, see Changing the Java version of Flow Management Data Hub
            clusters. When you create a new cluster through the UI, Java 8 is used as the
            default JDK. The ability to deploy a new Flow Management cluster with Java 11 is
            available only using the CLI. For more information, see Creating your cluster.

New components:


ConvertProtobuf to convert Protobuf data into JSON
Decrypt and Encode Content capabilities
Modify Compression processor
GCP Vision components for image processing
AWS Polly, AWS Textract, AWS Transcribe, AWS Translate
Asana source processor
Jira source processor
JSLT processor for easier transformations of JSON data
gRPC components with custom schema handling
Box, Dropbox, Google Drive sink processors
Support for Apache IoTDB
Salesforce sink processor
Redis sink processor (Technical Preview)
DeltaLake sink processor (Technical Preview)
Trigger Hive Metastore Event processor to update the HMS after pushing
              data into the object store
Validate JSON
Verify Content MAC
Generate Record processor – to better simulate data feeds
PostgreSQL controller service – to connect to PostgreSQL databases without
              the need to deal with the JDBC driver




Parent topic: What's new in Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub 7.2.17