Unlocking access to Kafka metadata in ZookeeperCloudera Docs
Unlocking access to Kafka metadata in Zookeeper
Learn how to unlock access to Kafka metadata in Zookeeper

Cloudera does not recommend that you leave access to Kafka znodes (metadata) in Zookeeper
        unlocked. Only unlock access if you are planning to make configuration changes in Kafka that
        require znode access to be unlocked. Once configuration changes are complete, Cloudera
        recommends that you re-restrict access.


 A secure Kafka cluster with Kerberos authentication enabled is required.

Disable the use of secure ACLs: This can be achieved by setting the
            zookeeper.set.acl configuration parameter to false.
In Cloudera Manager select the Kafka service.
Select Configuration.
Find the Enable Zookeeper ACL
            property.
Set the property to false by unchecking the checkbox next to the name of the
              role group.
Perform a Rolling Restart:
Return to the Home page by clicking the Cloudera Manager
            logo.
Go to the Kafka service and select Actions
                Rolling
                Restart.
Check the Restart roles with stale configurations
                only checkbox and click Rolling
            restart.
Click Close when the restart has
            finished.
Run the zookeeper-security-migration tool with the
            zookeeper.acl option set to unsecure
zookeeper-security-migration --zookeeper.connect [HOSTNAME]:[PORT]/[ZOOKEEPER_KAFKA_CHROOT] --zookeeper.acl unsecure
Replace [ZOOKEEPER_KAFKA_CHROOT] with the value of the
              zookeeper.chroot property. To view the value of the property, in
            Cloudera Manager go to Kafka > Configuration and search for zookeeper.chroot.

The tool traverses the corresponding sub-trees changing the ACLs of the znodes.
      Access to Kafka metadata stored in Zookeeper becomes unrestricted.

Related informationEnable Kerberos authentication for KafkaParent topic: Kafka security hardening with Zookeeper ACLs