Deploying Workload XMCloudera Docs
Deploying Workload XM
Steps for successfully configuring and installing Workload XM on all nodes
        in the Workload XM cluster. 
Describes how to install Workload XM on all nodes in the Workload XM
            cluster.
The following tasks must be completed before deploying Workload XM.
Verify that you successfully downloaded, distributed, and activated the
                        WXM parcel.
Verify that you assigned the Phoenix Query Server role to all the hosts in the
                        Workload XM environment, by selecting the
                        Status tab and then Roles in
                    the Cloudera Home page, and then confirming that each host displays the QS
                    icon.
Verify that you have the following TLS/SSL key pair values, which you will be
                    required to supply during the deployment task:
The location of your TLS/SSL private key file.
The location of your TLS/SSL certificate file.
the password of your TLS/SSL private key.

Verify that you recorded a Phoenix and Impala Daemon host name, which you will
                    be required to supply during the deployment task, by doing the following: 
From the Cloudera Manager's Home page, select
                                Phoenix and then
                                Instances. Record the host name of one of the
                            Query Server hosts.
From the Cloudera Manager's Home page, select
                                Impala and then
                                Instances. Record the host name of one of the
                            Query Server hosts. 
tipClick the CLOUDERA Manager icon to
                        go back to Cloudera Manager's Home page.


Verify that you are in a supported web browser on the Workload XM
                    cluster and have logged in to Cloudera Manager.

From the Cloudera Manager's Home page, select the
                        Status tab.

From the cluster Actions menu, denoted by the vertical ellipses icon, select
                        Add Service.

From the Service Type column in the Service to Cluster
                    page, locate Workload XM.

Select Workload XM and click
                        Continue.
The Add Workload XM Service to Cluster 1 page opens.

In the Assign Rolls panel, click Continue. 

In the Review Changes panel do the following:


If not visible, display the Phoenix Query Server
                                Host and the Impala Daemon Host
                            value entry fields by clicking the plus (+) icon
                            under Workload XM (Service-Wide).
In the Phoenix Query Server Host field, enter the
                            host name of the Phoenix Query Server that you recorded.
In the Impala Daemon Host field, enter the host
                            name of the Impala Daemon that you recorded.
In the Console Service TLS/SSL Server Private Key
                                File field, enter the location of your TLS private key
                            file.
In the Console Service TLS/SSL Server Certificate
                                File field, enter the location of your TLS certificate
                            file.
In the Console Service TLS/SSL Private Key
                                password field, enter the password of your TLS private
                            key.
For the Console Service TLS/SSL Server CA
                                Certificate field, do nothing by leaving this field
                            blank.
(Optional) Scroll through the rest of the properties and make your
                            changes.
When satisfied with your changes, click
                            Continue.


The Workload XM service is deployed and configured on the Workload XM cluster and its progress is displayed.

When completed, as denoted by the Status field
                    displaying Finished, click
                        Continue.

In the Summary panel, click Finish.

In the Cloudera Manager Home page, select the Status tab
                    and locate the Cloudera Management Service section.

From the Actions menu, denoted by the vertical ellipses icon, select
                        Restart.

In the Restart message, confirm restarting the Cloudera Management Service by
                    clicking Restart.

Monitor the restart progress until the Successfully restarted
                        service message appears and then click
                        Close. 

On the Cloudera Manager Home page, the Workload XM service appears in the
            list of services.

