Enabling the Telemetry Publisher ServiceCloudera Docs
Enabling the Telemetry Publisher Service
Activating the Telemetry Publisher service for Workload XM.
Describes how to enable the Telemetry Publisher service for Workload XM. 

Verify that you have the following values before enabling the Telemetry Publisher
                service, as you will be required to supply their values during this task.
The Telemetry Publisher access credentials, which are required to register
                        the Telemetry Publisher account.
The name of the node that contains the Workload XM Databus API
                            Server role, by doing the following:
In Cloudera Manager, select Hosts and then
                                    Roles.
Search for the Workload XM Databus API Server
                                role and record its host name. For example:Figure 1. Roles on the Workload XM Cluster






In a supported web browser on a Workload cluster, log in to Cloudera
                    Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters, locate and select
                        Cloudera Management Service, and then select the
                        Configuration tab. 

Search for the Telemetry Publisher Advanced Configuration Snippet
                        (Safety Valve) for telemetrypublisher.conf property and in its
                    text field enter the following using the Workload XM Database API
                    Server host name that you recorded as a prerequisite for these steps:

telemetry.upload.job.logs=true
telemetry.altus.url=http|https://Databus_API_Server_hostname:Databus_API_Server_port_number

Where, 
If you have enabled TLS/SSL for the Databus API Server (ssl.enabled),
                            enter https.
If you have not enabled TLS/SSL for the Databus API Server, enter
                                http.
noteBy default, the Databus API Server port number
                        is 12022.

Click Save.

Back in the Cloudera Manager Home page, from the navigation panel, select
                        Administration and then External
                        Accounts.

tipYou can refresh Cloudera Manager and come
                        back to the Cloudera Manager Home page by clicking on the Cloudera Manager
                        icon at the top of the navigation panel.


In the External Accounts page, click the Altus
                        Credentials tab, which displays your resource access account
                    certificates.

Add a new Telemetry Publisher access account certificate by clicking
                        Add Access Key Authentication and then in the Add
                    Access Key Authentication dialog box do the following:


In the Name field, enter an identifiable name
                            for the Telemetry Publisher access key account.


In the Altus Access Key ID field, enter the
                            Telemetry Publisher Altus access key text exactly as provided.


From the Altus Private Key list, select
                                Choose File and then browse and select your
                            Telemetry Publisher Altus private key file. 

noteThe Workload XM Telemetry
                                Publisher credentials are not related to Altus, but act as a
                                pay-wall mechanism to use Workload XM.



Click Add, which saves the credentials as an
                            Altus account certificate using the account name you provided and adds
                            it on the Altus Credentials External Accounts page. 



Back in the Cloudera Manager Home page, from the navigation panel, select
                        Administration and then
                        Settings.

Under the Filter CATEGORY section, select Altus.
Which populates the Settings page with your Telemetry Publisher access key
                    accounts.

From the Altus options, select the Telemetry Publisher Altus account
                    certificate option that you require for this Workload Cluster. In this case, the
                    name you provided in step 7a.

Click Save Changes.

Back in the Cloudera Manager Home page, in the Cloudera Management Service
                    section at the bottom of the Status page, select Cloudera Management
                        Service.

In the Health Tests section, select Telemetry Publisher.
                

From the Actions menu, select Start this
                        Telemetry Publisher.

In the Start message, confirm starting the Telemetry Publisher Service on your
                    cluster by clicking Start.

Monitor the start progress until the Successfully started
                        service message appears and then click
                        Close. 


Enabling Key Trustee KeysDescribes how to access files from HDFS with Telemetry Publisher when your access keys   are stored in the Cloudera Key Trustee Server.Parent topic: Configuring Telemetry Publisher