Adding a Proxy ServerCloudera Docs
Adding a Proxy Server
Steps for configuring a proxy server, which adds extra security by enabling an
        intermediary gateway for sending your workload data to Workload XM. 
Describes how to add a proxy server as an intermediary gateway.noteYou cannot upload data from Amazon Web Services (AWS) using a
                proxy server. You can configure the Telemetry Publisher service to send
                data by way of a proxy server for database and metric data uploads. By default, this
                configuration property is disabled. Telemetry Publisher uses the TLS and
                HTTPS protocols to send telemetry information to Workload XM, which
                ensures that the data is encrypted. The proxy you use must support the HTTP CONNECT
                method in order to be able to pass through the encrypted messages. For more
                information, see the associated HTTP CONNECT Request for Comments (RFC)
                document.noteTelemetry Publisher support for proxy
                servers is only available in Cloudera Manager version 5.16.2 and
            later.

In a supported web browser on a Workload cluster, log in to Cloudera Manager
                    with administrator privileges.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters, locate and select
                        Cloudera Management Service, and then select the
                        Configuration tab. 

From the Filters panel in the SCOPE section, select Telemetry
                        Publisher.

In the Search field, enter proxy, which displays the
                    proxy configuration properties.

Select the Telemetry Publisher Default Group check box
                    and do the following:


In the Proxy Server field, enter the proxy server
                            name.
In the Proxy Port field, enter the port number
                            for the proxy server.
In the Proxy User field, enter the proxy server
                            user name, which is used for access authentication.
In the Proxy Password field, enter the password
                            for the proxy server user name.



noteIf these properties do not appear, search for the
                            Java Configuration Options for Telemetry
                            Publisher property and in its entry field, enter the
                        following: 
-Djdk.http.auth.tunneling.disabledSchemes=""


Click Save Changes, and then restart the Telemetry
                    Publisher service.


Parent topic: Configuring Telemetry Publisher