Granting Local AuthenticationCloudera Docs
Granting Local Authentication
Granting user access using local authentication.
Describes how to locate the Workload XM local authentication directory
            and user authentication files in Cloudera Manager, and how to add a user, or remove or
            list existing users using the Console Server executable tool. 

In a supported web browser on the Workload XM cluster, log in to
                    Cloudera Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters,
                        Workload XM, and then the
                        Configuration tab.

Search for the following properties:


User Authorization File Directory
                            (user-file.dir), which is the local directory for storing
                            the user authorization file required by the Console Server. By default,
                                /etc/wxm/conf.
User Authorization File Name (user-file.name),
                            which is the name of the user authorization file required by the Console
                            Server. By default, user-file.json.noteIf this file does not exist, it is created
                                during the service startup and is then stored in the directory set
                                by the user-file.dir parameter. 



In a terminal, SSH to the cluster node that has the Workload XM
                    Console role. 

On the Workload XM host, go to the following directory by entering
                    the following command:

${PARCELS_ROOT}/WXM/lib/thunderhead-sigma-console


According to your task, enter one of the following commands:


To add a user, enter the following command and then follow the prompts
                            to create the user's user name and
                            password:./onprem-linux user add --user-file user-file.dir user-file.name
To remove a user, enter the following
                            command:./onprem-linux user remove --user-file user-file.dir user-file.name
To list existing users, enter the following
                            command:
./onprem-linux user list --user-file user-file.dir user-file.name



(Optional) To access the help for other commands, enter the following
                    command:

./onprem-linux -h
noteYou cannot change a user's user name or password,
                        instead you must first remove the user and then recreate the user with their
                        new credentials. Also, if you attempt to edit a nonexistent user file, a
                        prompt appears asking if you would like to create the file.



Parent topic: Granting User Access