Enabling the Auto Actions Feature in Telemetry PublisherCloudera Docs
Enabling the Auto Actions Feature in Telemetry Publisher
Steps for enabling the Workload XM Auto Actions feature in the Telemetry
        Publisher service.

Describes how to access and enable the Telemetry Publisher Auto Actions property
                settings. 
noteThis task must be performed by a user who has either cluster
                or full administrator privileges.


Verify that you have enabled the Telemetry Publisher service.

In a supported web browser, log in to Cloudera Manager as a user with full
                    system administrator privileges.

From the Cloudera Manager Navigation side-bar, click
                        Clusters and then scroll down, locate, and select
                        Cloudera Management Service.

In the Status Summary section on the Cloudera Management
                    Service page, click Telemetry Publisher.

In the Telemetry Publisher page, select the
                        Configuration tab.

In the Alert message that appears, click Edit Service
                        Configuration.

In the Search field, enter Telemetry
                        Publisher Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                        telemetrypublisher.conf.

tipEntering the full property name in the
                        Search field is not always required. For example, in this case you can enter
                            safety to locate the Telemetry Publisher
                            Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                            telemetrypublisher.conf configuration property.


In the Telemetry Publisher Default Group text box, enter
                    the Telemetry Publisher Auto Actions configuration property settings that you
                    require. 
For example, to enable Auto Actions for Spark applications, set the
                        following:autoactions.yarn.app.collector.enabled=true
autoactions.collection.spark.enabled=true
The full list of available Auto Actions property settings for Telemetry Publisher can be found in the next topic.

Click Save Changes.

Restart the Telemetry Publisher service on your cluster, by doing the
                    following:


Go back to the Cloudera Manager Home page.

tipClicking the CLOUDERA Manager
                                icon in the upper-left corner takes you back to the Cloudera Manager
                                Home page.



From the Cloudera Manager Navigation side-bar, click
                                Clusters and then scroll down, locate, and
                            select Cloudera Management Service.


In the Status Summary section on the Cloudera
                            Management Service page, click Telemetry
                                Publisher.


From the Actions menu, select Restart
                                this Telemetry Publisher.


In the Restart message, confirm restarting the Telemetry Publisher
                            Service on your cluster by clicking
                            Restart.


Monitor the restart progress until the Successfully
                                restarted service message appears and then click
                                Close.




Telemetry Publisher Configuration Settings for Auto ActionsLists the Workload XM Telemetry Publisher configuration property settings.     Set in the Telemetry Publisher Safety Valve section in Cloudera Manager they enable Telemetry     Publisher to collect data that is required by the Auto Actions feature.Parent topic: Configuring Telemetry Publisher