Accessing the Workload XM Web User Interface URLCloudera Docs
Accessing the Workload XM Web User Interface URL
Steps for accessing the Workload XM web user interface URL for the first
        time.
Describes how locate the Workload XM web UI URL.
Verify that the following is completed:
Workload XM is installed.
Telemetry Publisher is enabled for Workload XM and your Workload
                    clusters are associated with the service.
Cloudera Manager is connected to Workload XM.
noteThis task is performed by a user who is assigned full
                access rights and system administrator  privileges across all clusters within the
                    Workload XM environment.

In a supported web browser on the Workload XM cluster, log in to
                    Cloudera Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters and then
                        WXM.

Do one or more of the following: 

To forward the Workload XM web UI URL to your Workload XM users. Right-click on the Workload XM
                            UI tab and copy and paste its URL link into an email and
                        send to the Workload XM users.
To test the Workload XM URL and web user interface. Click the
                        Go To icon in the Workload XM UI tab, which opens the
                            Workload XM login page for you to enter and log in to the Workload XM web UI with your Workload XM user name and
                        password access credentials.tipBy
                            default, for testing purposes, you can enter
                                admin for both the user name and password.
                            Cloudera recommends changing this default setting as soon as
                            possible.


Optional testing tasks: 


To verify that all the Workload clusters in the Workload XM
                            environment are visible in the Workload XM web UI and are
                            accessible by Telemetry Publisher and Workload XM. From the
                                Workload XM navigation panel, select
                                Clusters.The Clusters page opens
                                displaying the Workload clusters in your environment.noteIf no cluster names appear or a specific
                                Workload cluster is not displaying, verify that you have associated
                                Cloudera Manager Telemetry Publisher with the Workload
                                cluster.
To view a Workload cluster's workload metrics, select the name of a
                            Workload cluster.noteAt this time, the following
                                sections of the Workload XM web UI are disabled or are
                                not present: 
Feedback link
Impala query potential SQL issues
Cluster Email Reports
HDFS Tables Scanned





