Associating a Workload Cluster with Telemetry PublisherCloudera Docs
Associating a Workload Cluster with Telemetry Publisher
Steps for connecting your Workload cluster with the Telemetry Publisher
        service.
Describes how to associate a Workload Cluster with Telemetry Publisher by
            designating a host cluster with the Telemetry Publisher service role. noteIf you are using Java 7, additional steps are required for
                adding the Telemetry Publisher service role. 


The following pre-tasks must be completed before associating a Workload cluster with
                Telemetry Publisher.
Verify that you have the JCE Policy installed before enabling the role in
                        the Cloudera Manager Service.noteIf you are using
                            JDK version 1.8.0_160 or earlier, verify that you have installed the JCE
                            policy file as described in the Cloudera Manager
                        documentation.
Rename the Workload cluster with a human-readable name in Cloudera Manager.
                                Workload XM identifies the cluster from a random
                            string of 32 characters, such as
                                44a6e75e-8630-4773-9ea9-6272478e84c2, which is
                            difficult to identify and manage. Cloudera recommends completing the
                            following task to rename your Workload cluster.To rename a
                            workload cluster:
In a supported web browser on a Workload cluster, log in to
                                    Cloudera Manager.
In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters, and
                                    then select the workload cluster that requires a human-readable
                                    name.
From the Actions menu, select
                                        Rename Cluster.
In the Name field of the
                                        Rename Cluster dialog box, enter a
                                    new name that is easily identifiable by you. 
Click Rename Cluster.




In a supported web browser on a Workload cluster, log in to Cloudera
                    Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters and then locate and
                    select Cloudera Management Service. 

From the Actions menu, select Add Role
                        Instances.
The Add Role Instances to Cloudera Management Service opens.

Do one of the following:

If a Telemetry Publisher role already exists, do nothing. Cloudera
                        Manager does not let you add another.
If a Telemetry Publisher role does not exist, continue.


Select a host for the Telemetry Publisher by doing one of the following:

If you are using Java 8, click Select a host and
                        in the Hosts Selected page, select the check box by the side of  the
                        required host and click OK.
If you are using Java 7, configure Telemetry Publisher as follows:
Go back to Cloudera Management Service and click the
                                    Configuration tab.
Under Scope, select Telemetry
                                    Publisher.
In the Search field, enter java
                                    configuration, which displays the Java
                                    Configuration Options for Telemetry Publisher
                                filter.
In Telemetry Publisher Default Group field, add the following
                                property:-Dhttps.protocols=TLSv1.2 -Dhttps.cipherSuites=TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256
Click Save Changes.



Back in the Cloudera Manager Home page, select Clusters,
                        Hive, and then  Instances.
                

Select the Role Type check box, which selects all the
                    Hive Roles.

From the Actions for Selected list, select
                        Restart.

In the Restart message, confirm restarting the HIVE roles by clicking
                        Restart.

Monitor the restart progress until the Successfully restarted
                        service message appears and then click
                        Close.


Parent topic: Configuring Telemetry Publisher