Workload XM Installation OverviewCloudera Docs
Workload XM Installation Overview
A brief overview of the tasks required to successfully install Workload XM on
  a dedicated cluster within your environment.
Installing Workload XM requires the following tasks that are performed by you: 
Creating a CDP cluster for Workload XM that contains a minimum of 5 nodes and
     that is managed by Cloudera Manager. noteWorkload XM must be
      installed in a dedicated cluster, separate from your development, test, or production workload
      clusters. This configuration minimizes the impact on the cluster and prevents the need to
      upgrade your workload clusters to meet the needs of Workload XM.
Verifying that your environment's system has the required supported software and hardware
     and the required network services and devices for installing Workload XM.
Performing the pre-installation tasks.
Downloading the Workload XM installation files from the Cloudera Downloads
     website to the host server on your Workload XM cluster.
Activating the Workload XM parcel files, enabling secure communication and data
     encryption between components, Workload XM on-premises, and your Workload clusters,
     and setting the required Workload XM component configurations.
Adding the Workload XM service in Cloudera Manager. 
Verifying the cluster network topology of your Workload XM environment.


tipThe pre-installation, installation, and deployment tasks
    collect a series of parameter and property values. These values are used during the Workload XM installation and deployment tasks to configure and setup Workload XM specifically for your system. Cloudera recommends recording these values
    before starting a task.

Follow these guidelines to ensure a successful Workload XM installation:
Decide on the type of Workload XM environment that best suites your business
     requirements.
Read the system requirements. This ensures that your Workload XM cluster has the
     required base hardware and software.
Read the installation pre-requisites and installation steps. This ensures that you
     understand the tasks required and how they are completed.
Understand what software services are required and what account information is needed when
     configuring dependent services. Third-party software services, such as LDAP and network and
     firewall security, must be configured by you. For example, your SSL key pair file locations and
     private key are required during installation.
Record all the required configuration values, such as host names, port numbers, user names
     and passwords. 
During the pre-installation tasks, record any new configuration values as you create them.
     You will be required to enter these configuration values later when you install and deploy Workload XM.
After installing Workload XM, verify that the software stack installed
     successfully.


ArchitectureDescribes the components and architecture of a basic Workload XM     environment.