Profiler Configuration SettingsCloudera Docs
Profiler Configuration
      Settings
The Profiler is installed during the Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP)
      installation and runs as an independent Storm topology. The configuration for the Profiler
      topology is stored in ZooKeeper at /metron/topology/profiler. These
      properties also exist in the default installation of CCP at
         $METRON_HOME/config/zookeeper/profiler.json. The profiler values can be
      changed on disk and then uploaded to ZooKeeper using
         $METRON_HOME/bin/zk_load_configs.sh.
You might need to work with your Platform Engineer to modify or tune the Profiler
      values.



Settings.

Description




profiler.workers
The number of worker processes to create for the topology.


profiler.executors
The number of executors to spawn per component.


profiler.input.topic
The name of the Kafka topic from which to consume data.


profiler.output.topic
The name of the Kafka topic to which profile data is written. Only used
                        with profiles that use the triage result field.


profiler.period.duration
The duration of each profile period. This value should be define along
                        with profiler.period.duration.units.


profiler.period.duration.units
The units used to specify the profile period duration. This value should
                        be defined along with profiler.period.duration.


profiler.ttl
If a message has not been applied to a Profile in this period of time,
                        the Profile will be forgotten and its resources will be cleaned up. This
                        value should be defined along with
                        profiler.ttl.units.


profiler.ttl.units
The units used to specify the profiler.ttl.


profiler.hbase.salt.divisor
A salt is prepended to the row key to help prevent hotspotting. This
                        constant is used to generate the sale. Ideally, this constant should be
                        roughly equal to the number of nodes in the HBase cluster.


profiler.hbase.table
The name of the HBase table that profiles are written to.


profiler.hbase.column.family
The column family used to store profiles.


profiler.hbase.batch
The number of puts that are written in a single batch.


profiler.hbase.flush.interval.seconds
The maximum number of seconds between batch writes to HBase.



Parent topic: Setting Up a Profile Overview