Understand the use caseCloudera Docs
Understand the use case
Learn how you can use a Flow Management cluster connected to a Streams Messaging cluster
    to build an end-to-end flow that ingests data to Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS). This example
    use case shows you how to use Apache NiFi to move data from Kafka to ADLS.
Why move data to object stores?
Cloud environments offer numerous deployment options and services. There are many ways to
        store data in the cloud, but the easiest option is to use object stores. Object stores are
        extremely robust and cost/effective storage solutions with multiple levels of durability and
        availability. You can include them in your data pipeline, both as an intermediate step and
        as an end state. Object stores are accessible to many tools and connecting systems, and you
        have a variety of options to control access.

Apache NiFi for cloud ingestion
You can use Apache NiFi to move data from a range of locations into object stores
        in CDP Public Cloud.
As a part of Cloudera Data Flow, NiFi offers a scalable solution for managing
        data flows with guaranteed delivery, data buffering / pressure release, and prioritized
        queuing. It supports data transfer from nearly any type of data source to cloud storage
        solutions in a secure and governed manner.
You can use NiFi to move data from various locations into Azure Data Lake Storage
        (ADLS) in a quick and user-friendly way, by simply dragging and dropping a series of
        processors on the NiFi user interface. When the data flow is ready, you can visually monitor
        and control the pipeline you have built.
This use case walks you through the steps associated with creating an ingest-focused data
        flow from Apache Kafka into ADLS folders. If you are moving data from a location other than
        Kafka, see the Getting Started with Apache NiFi for information about how to build a
        data flow, and about other data get and consume processor options.


Related informationGetting Started with Apache NiFiIngesting Data into Apache KafkaIngesting Data into Apache HBase in CDP Public CloudIngesting data into Apache Hive in CDP Public CloudIngesting Data into Apache Kudu in CDP Public CloudIngesting data into Amazon S3 https://nifi.apache.org/docs/nifi-docs/html/getting-started.htmlParent topic: Ingesting data into Azure Data Lake Storage
