Create controller services for your data flowCloudera Docs
Create controller services for your data flow
Learn how you can create and configure controller services for an ADLS ingest data
    flow in CDP Public Cloud. Controller services provide shared services that can be used by the
    processors in your data flow. You will use these Controller Services later when you configure
    your processors.

To add a Controller Service to your flow, right-click on the Canvas and select
            Configure from the pop-up menu. This displays the
            Controller Services Configuration window.Select the Controller Services tab.Click the + button to display the Add Controller
            Service dialog.

Select the required Controller Service and click Add.

Perform any necessary Controller Service configuration tasks by clicking the
            Configure icon in the right-hand column.

When you have finished configuring the options you need, save the changes by
          clicking the Apply button.Enable the Controller Service by clicking the Enable button
          (flash) in the far-right column of the Controller Services
          tab.
In this example we are using the following controller services:
AvroReader Controller Service Table 1. AvroReader Controller Service properties

Property
Description
Example value for ingest data flow




Schema Access Strategy


Specify how to obtain the schema to be used for interpreting the data.


HWX Content-Encoded Schema Reference




Schema Registry


Specify the Controller Service to use for the Schema Registry.


CDPSchemaRegistry




Schema Name


Specify the name of the schema to look up in the Schema Registry
                      property.


customer




CSVReader Controller Service Table 2. CSVReader Controller Service Properties

Property
Description
Example value for ingest data flow




Schema Access Strategy


Specify how to obtain the schema to be used for interpreting the data.


Use String Fields From Header




Treat First Line as Header


Specify whether the first line of CSV should be considered a header or a
                      record.


true




CSVRecordSetWriter Controller ServiceTable 3. CSVRecordSetWriter Controller Service Properties

Property
Description
Example value for ingest data flow



Schema Write Strategy

Specify how the schema for a record should be added to the data.


Do Not Write Schema




Schema Access Strategy


Specify how to obtain the schema to be used for interpreting the data.


Use 'Schema Name' Property




Schema Name

Specify the name of the schema to look up in the Schema
                      Registry property.See the Appendix  for an example
                    schema.

customer




Configure the processors in your data flow.

Related informationAdding Controller Services for data flows Apache NiFi DocumentationParent topic: Ingesting data into Azure Data Lake Storage
