Understanding rolesCloudera Docs
Understanding roles
To access resources and perform tasks in CDP, each user requires permissions. As a
   CDP administrator, you can assign a role to a user to give the user permission to perform the
   tasks.
A policy defines the permissions associated with a role. It consists of policy statements
      that grant permissions to resources. The policies attached to a role determine the operations
      that the role allows the user to perform. When users attempt to perform operations that are
      not permitted in their assigned role, they get a permission denied error message.
CDP provides the following types of roles:

Account-level roles: These are global roles not associated with any specific resource. CDP
        has certain predefined account-level roles that you can assign to users.
Resource roles: These are resource-specific roles that provide permissions to perform
        tasks on a specific resource, such as a CDW virtual warehouse.

The scope of predefined roles and resource roles can vary. For example, a role might grant
      view access only to CML clusters but not CDW clusters. You might need to assign multiple roles
      to ensure that a user can perform all the required tasks in CDP.
Account-level roles
An account-level role grants permissions to perform tasks in CDP that are not associated
        with a specific resource. You explicitly assign a role to a user account.
The predefined account-level roles available in CDP that you can assign to CDP users,
        machine users, and groups are as follows:
Table 1. CDP roles

CDP role 
Description



PowerUser
Grants permission to perform all tasks on all resources. noteOnly a CDP
                  account administrator or a user with the PowerUser role can create environments or
                  assign roles to a user.Only a CDP account administrator or a user with the
                    PowerUser or EnvironmentAdmin resource role can download and update the
                    Kubernetes configuration file, and view the compute cluster
                  information.


IamUser
Grants permission to create access keys for the user, view assigned roles, and
                view all users in the account.


IamViewer
Grants permission to view assigned roles and view all users in the
                account.


EnvironmentAdmin
Grants a CDP user all the rights to an environment and a data lake. The
                EnvironmentAdmin role is assigned the Limited Cluster Administrator role in Cloudera
                Manager. Environment Admins can manage the cluster lifecycle, change configurations,
                and manage parcels.


EnvironmentUser
Grants a CDP user the ability to view data lakes and set the password for the
                environment. The EnvironmentUser role is assigned the Read-Only role in Cloudera
                Manager.


note
Only a CDP account administrator or a user with the PowerUser role can create
          environments, create and manage data lakes, and assign roles to a user.


Resource roles
A resource role grants permission to access and perform tasks using specific resources.
When you assign a resource role, you must specify the resource on which to grant the
        resource role permissions. For example, you can assign a user a resource role that grants
        permission on a virtual warehouse. The user assigned the resource role can access and
        perform tasks on only the resources associated with the virtual warehouse.
The resource role determines the tasks that the user can perform using the resources
        associated with the role. For example, the MLUser resource role assigned to a user
        allows the user to view the Cloudera Machine Learning workspaces provisioned within an
        environment.
You cannot modify the pre-defined resource roles or the policies associated with the
        pre-defined resource roles.
The pre-defined resource roles available in CDP that you can assign to CDP users, machine
        users, and groups are as follows:


Table 2. Resource roles

Resource role
Description



DWAdmin
Grants a CDP user/group the ability to activate/terminate or
                    launch/stop/update services in Virtual Warehouses.


DWUser
Grants a CDP user/group the ability to view and use Cloudera Data Warehouse
                    clusters within a given CDP environment.


MLAdmin
Grants a CDP user/group the ability to create and delete Cloudera Machine
                    Learning workspaces within a given CDP environment. MLAdmins also have
                    Administrator level access to all the workspaces provisioned within this
                    environment. They can run workloads, monitor, and manage all user activity on
                    these workspaces.


MLUser
Grants a CDP user/group the ability to view Cloudera Machine Learning
                    workspaces provisioned within a given CDP environment. MLUsers will also be able
                    to run workloads on all the workspaces provisioned within this
                    environment.


DEAdmin
Grants a CDP user/group the permissions to create, delete, and administer
                    Data Engineering services for a given CDP environment.


DEUser
Grants a CDP user/group the permissions to list and use Data Engineering
                    services for a given CDP environment.






Assigning account-level roles to usersAssign account-level roles to a CDP user to manage the tasks that the user can perform     in CDP. You can assign multiple roles to users or machine users to provide them with the     permissions they need to perform their required tasks.Assigning resources to usersAssign a user or a machine user a resource role on the scope of a CDP environment to     grant the user access to the resources they need to perform their required tasks. 