Dashboard DesignerCloudera Docs
Dashboard Designer
The Dashboard Designer of Cloudera Data Visualization is an
    intuitive interface for building dashboards that help you to collect, organize, and display
    related visuals. You can add or link the visuals you have created based on datasets from the
    same connection or across different connections.
The Dashboard Designer page has the following main parts:
        
Dashboard Designer top menu bar
Dashboard preview area
Dashboard Designer side menu bar

Dashboard Designer top menu bar


The VIEW button allows you to preview the dashboard at runtime.
          It is only displayed on the menu bar if you already saved your dashboard.
The LAYOUT button allows you to edit the layout of dashboard
          visuals. It is only displayed on the menu bar if you already saved your dashboard.
The SAVE button saves all changes to the dashboard.
The Supplemental menu provides access to additional
            functions:
Clone lets you clone the current dashboard.
Add to Favorites lets you mark commonly-used dashboards as
              favorites and quickly find them in a subsequent work session. This menu item is only
              available after you first saved your dashboard.
Set as Homepage lets you change your home screen to the
              current dashboard. This menu item is only available after you saved your
              dashboard.
Export allows you to export all of the dashboard elements.
              This menu item is only available after you saved your dashboard.
Download as... provides you with options to save your
              dashboards as images (in png format) and as PDF files.
Show Usage Info provides you with profile data. For more
              information, see Showing usage information.
New Dashboard lets you create a new dashboard.
Delete Dashboard lets you remove the current dashboard.

The workspace selector allows you to assign your dashboard to a different workspace.
          Dashboards can belong to public, private, or a custom workspace, but they can only exist
          in one workspace at any time.


Dashboard preview area
The dashboard preview area shows the contents of the dashboard, that is all filters and
        visuals you have added to it. You can also find here the title and subtitle of the
        dashboard. When you start building a new dashboard, this area is empty.

The title area contains two editable fields where you can add the title and subtitle of
          your choice. Both are empty when you create a new dashboard.
enter title...
enter subtitle...

Dashboard actions
Parameters
Back
Forward
Reset
Information
When you save a new dashboard the supplemental menu icon is added to the dashbord
            actions offering the following options: 
Email – You can use it to send the dashboard in an email.
                For more information, see Emailing a dashboard
Download as... – You can use it to download the dashboard
                as an image or in PDF format. For more information, see Downloading a
                  dashboard

Get URL – You can use it to obtain the default URL of the
                dashboard or generate a short URL for it. For more information, see Getting
                  the dashboard URL.

The filter area contains the filter controls that allow you to dynamically change the
          dashboard presentation at run time. Filters can be defined on any column of the dataset by
          pulling the appropriate field from the Filters menu.
The visuals area contains the visuals of the dashboard. It is empty when you create a
          new dashboard. To add visuals, use the Visuals menu.


Dashboard Designer side menu bar


The dashboard menu selector enables you to choose between
          different menus in the Dashboard Designer.
Visuals – This menu allows you to add visuals to your
                dashboard.
Recently Created Visuals show you the new visuals added
                  recently.
The Connection drop-down list lets you select an
                  alternate connection. It is available in both the Visuals
                  and Filters menus.noteA dashboard can contain visuals
                    from several connections.
The Dataset drop-down list lets you select an alternate
                  dataset. It is available in both Visuals and
                    Filters menus.noteA dashboard can contain visuals from
                    multiple datasets that share the same connection or from different datasets
                    across different connections. When you change the dataset, a new set of existing
                    visuals appears in the menu.
The NEW VISUAL button enables you to start a new visual
                  from within the dashboard.
Existing visuals that belong to the specified dataset are displayed lower on the
                  menu. Changing the dataset gives access to other visuals. You can click the
                  visuals to add them to the dashboard.

Filters – This menu allows you to add filters to your
                dashboard.
The CREATE CUSTOM FILTER button allows you to create a
                  custom filter based on any parameter and add it to your dashboard.
The Connection drop-down list lets you select an
                  alternate connection. It is available in both Visuals and Filters menus.noteA
                    dashboard can contain visuals from several connections.
The Dataset drop-down list lets you select an alternate
                  dataset. It is available in both Visuals and
                    Filters menus.noteA dashboard can contain visuals from
                    multiple datasets that share the same connection or from different datasets
                    across different connections. When you change the dataset, a new set of existing
                    visuals appears in the menu.
Dimensions show you all fields by dataset that you can
                  use as a filter.
Measures show you all fields by dataset that you can use
                  as a filter.noteYou can also use the Search text box to
                    look for a field.

Settings – This menu provides you with several options for
              dashboard display settings.
General
Filter Settings
Downloads
See Customizing general settings for dashboards for more
              information.
Style – This menu provides you with various styling options
              for dashboards.
Dashboard Basics
Dashboard Title
Dashboard Subtitle
Filters
Visual Borders
Custom Style
See Customizing style for dashboards for more information.
noteYou can minimize the side menu bar to see the full dashboard preview area by
            clicking the selected menu icon again.
If you already have a visual or visuals available in the dashboard and you are working
          on one of them, you can also see the visual menu selector in the
          side menu bar. It enables you to choose between different menus in the Visual
            Builder.
Build
Settings
Style
For more information about these visual menu options, see Visual
          Builder.
At the top right corner of the Dashboard Designer side menu, you
          can click the [expand] iconto increase its width. To decrease the
          size of the pane, you can click the [compress] icon.



Related informationShowing usage informationEmailing a dashboardDownloading a dashboardGetting the dashboard URLCustomizing general settings for dashboardsCustomizing style for dashboardsVisual Builder