Troubleshooting ML Workspaces on AWSCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting ML Workspaces on AWS
This topic describes the ML workspace provisioning workflow and
    tells you how to start debugging issues with ML workspaces on AWS. 
ML Workspace Provisioning Workflow
When you provision a new ML Workspace on AWS, CML performs the following actions:
Communicates with the CDP Management Console to check your AWS
          credentials. It will also enable Single Sign-On so that authorized CDP
          users are automatically logged in to the workspace that will be
          created.
Provisions an NFS filesystem for the workspace on your cloud service
          provider. On AWS, CML will provision storage on EFS.
Provisions a Kubernetes cluster on your cloud service provider. This
          cluster runs the workspace infrastructure and compute resources. On
          AWS, CML provisions an EKS cluster.
Mounts the provisioned NFS filesytem to the Kubernetes cluster. 
Provisions TLS certificates for the workspace using LetsEncrypt.
          
Registers the workspace with the cloud provider's DNS service. On
          AWS, this is Route53.
Installs Cloudera Machine Learning onto the EKS cluster. 

Troubleshooting Resources
Any of the steps listed above can experience failures. To start
      debugging, you will require access to one or more of the following
      resources. 
Workspace > Details PageEach workspace has an associated
              Details page that lists important information about the
            workspace. To access this page, sign in to CDP, go to ML
              Workspaces and click on the workspace name. This page
            lists basic information about the workspace such as who created it
            and when. More importantly, it includes a link to the environment
            where the workspace was created, a link to the underlying EKS
            cluster on AWS, a list of tags associated with the workspace, and
            the computing resources in use. The rest of this topic explains how
            to use these resources. 
Workspace > Events PageEach workspace also has an
            associated Events page that captures every action performed
            on the workspace. This includes creating, upgrading, and removing
            the workspace, among other actions. To access this page, sign in to
            CDP, go to ML Workspaces, click on the workspace name, and
            then click Events.Click the
              View Logs button associated with an action
            to see a high-level overview of all the steps performed by CML to
            complete the action. The Request ID associated with each
            action is especially useful in case of a failure as it allows
            Cloudera Support to efficiently track the series of operations that
            led to the failure. 

Environment > Summary Page
CML workspaces depend quite heavily on the environment in which
            they are provisioned. Each environment's Summary page lists useful
            information that can help you debug issues with the CML service. You
            can access the environment directly from the workspace Details page. 
This page includes important information such as:
Credential Setup - Tells you how security has been
                configured for the environment. Your cloud credential gives CDP
                access to the region and virtual network that make up the
                environment thus allowing CDP to provision resources within that
                environment. 
Region - The AWS region where the environment is
                provisioned. This is especially important because it tells you
                which region's AWS console you might need to access for further
                debugging. 
Network - The VPC and subnets that were created for the
                environment. Each CML workspace requires a set of unique IP
                addresses to run all of its associated Kubernetes services. If
                you begin to run out of IP addresses, you will need these VPC
                and subnet IDs to debug further in the AWS console. 

Logs - When you create a CDP environment, you are
                  asked to specify an S3 bucket in that environment that will be
                  used to store logs. All CML operational logs and Spark logs
                  are also written to this bucket. 
You can use the AWS console to access these logs.
                  Alternatively, Site administrators can download these logs
                  directly from their workspace Site Admin panel
                      (Admin > 
                      Support). 
noteIf you file a support case, Cloudera Support will not
                  automatically have access to these logs because they live in
                  your environment.





AWS Management Console
If you have all the relevant information about the environment and
            the workspace, you can go to the AWS console (for the region
              where your environment was created) to investigate further.
            The AWS Management Console has links to dashboards for all the
            services used by CML.


EC2You can use the EC2 service dashboards to check
                  the instance-type (CPU, GPU), VPC, subnet, and security group
                  limits imposed on your AWS account. For example, there is
                  typically a limit of 5 VPCs per region.If you
                  need more resources, submit a request to Amazon to raise the
                  limit of a resource.
EKSEKS will give you more information such as the version of Kubernetes
                  CML is using, network information, and the status of the cluster. The workspace
                  Details page gives you a direct link to the provisioned EKS cluster on the AWS
                  console.noteBy default, users do not have Kubernetes-level access
                  to the EKS cluster. If a user wants to use kubectl to debug
                  issues with the EKS cluster directly, an MLAdmin must explicitly grant access
                  using the instructions provided here: Granting Remote Access to ML Workspaces on
                    EKS. 
VPCUse the VPC ID obtained from the CDP environment
                  Summary page to search for the relevant VPC where you have
                  provisioned or are trying to provision an ML workspace. Each
                  CML workspace requires a set of unique IP addresses to run all
                  of its associated Kubernetes services. You can use this
                  service to see how many IP addresses are available for each
                  subnet.
S3Use the S3 bucket configured for the environment
                  to check/download logs for more debugging.
TagsWhen provisioning an ML workspace, you will have
                  the option to assign one or more tags to the workspace. These
                  tags are then applied to all the underlying AWS resources used
                  by the workspace. If failures occur during provisioning or
                  de-provisioning, it can be very useful to simply query the
                  tags associated with the workspace to see if any resources
                  need to be cleaned up manually. Tags associated with a
                  workspace are available on the workspace Details
                  page.You can search by tags in the EC2 and VPC
                  services. You can also use the AWS CLI to search for specific
                  tags: resourcegroupstaggingapi
Trusted Advisor (available with AWS Support)Use the
                  Trusted Advisor dashboard for a high-level view of how you are
                  doing with your AWS account. The dashboard displays security
                  risks, service limits, and possible areas to optimize resource
                  usage. If you have access to AWS Support, it's a good idea to
                  review your current account status with Trusted Advisor before
                  you start provisioning ML workspaces. 





