AWS resources and servicesCloudera Docs
AWS resources and services
CDP uses the following resources in your AWS account. 
Use the following guidelines to ensure that CDP has access to the resources in your AWS account
   and that your AWS account has all the necessary resources required by CDP:


AWS regionPrior to registering an environment, you should decide which AWS region you would like   to use. VPC and subnetsWhen registering an AWS environment in CDP, you will be asked to select a VPC and two or   more subnets. Security groupsSecurity groups determine the inbound and outbound traffic to and from your CDP   environment. That is, you should use security group settings to allow users from your organization   access to CDP resources.SSH key pairWhen registering an environment, you will be asked to provide an SSH public key for   which you have a matching private key. The minimum SSH key size is 2048 bits.EC2 instancesCDP provisions EC2 instances as part of environment creation process (for Data Lake and   FreeIPA) and for compute clusters.Cross-account access IAM roleTo allow CDP to create resources in your AWS account, you create a cross-account access   IAM role in your AWS account and grant CDP access to the role as a trusted principal by specifying   a specific AWS account and an external ID. S3 bucket, and IAM roles and policies for logs, backups, and data storageCDP requires that you create and provide at least one S3 bucket for storing workload     data and logs. You also need to create and provide multiple IAM roles and policies that allow     access to the S3 bucket.Customer managed encryption keysBy default, Data Lake and FreeIPA's Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes and   Relational Database Service (RDS) are encrypted using a default key from Amazon’s KMS, but you can   optionally configure encryption using Customer Managed Keys (CMK). Data Hubs inherit environment's   encryption key by default but you have an option to specify a different CMK during Data Hub   creation.AWS limitsWhen you create your AWS account, AWS sets limits to the resources available to you. The   limits can vary by region.Overview of AWS resources used by CDPThe following AWS resources are used by CDP and CDP services. 