VPC and subnetsCloudera Docs
VPC and subnets
When registering an AWS environment in CDP, you will be asked to select a VPC and two or
  more subnets. 
You have two options:

Use your existing VPC and subnets for provisioning CDP resources. 
Have CDP create a new VPC and subnets. All CDP resources will be provisioned into this new
    VPC and subnets.

Existing VPC and subnets
Verify the limits of the VPC and subnets available in your AWS account to ensure that you have
    enough resources to create clusters in CDP.
If you would like to use your own AWS VPC, it must meet the following requirements: 
The VPC has at least two subnets, each in a different availability zone.

If you plan to expose your cluster via a public load balancer, you need to have at
            least one public and one private subnet in the same availability zone and your cluster
            must be deployed to one of those subnets.

The VPC subnets must be connected to an Internet Gateway OR a NAT Gateway. The VPC
            should be able to make an outbound connection with the internet or set of CIDRs and
            ports provided by Cloudera. 

CDP supports public subnets and private subnets. For private subnets, you must enable
              Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM).
important
For production deployments, Cloudera recommends that you use private subnets. Work
              with your internal IT teams to ensure that users can access the browser interfaces for
              cluster services.

warning
Be careful if deploying into an existing subnet that has a non-default Network
              Access Control List (NACL) applied to it. In such case, a security group at EC2 level
              and a NACL at subnet level are both present at the same time. This can cause a problem
              because the two settings are evaluated independently (For incoming traffic, the NACL
              set at the subnet level is evaluated first, then the security group set at the EC2
              level. For outgoing traffic the evaluation is the converse), and if an "allow" rule
              does not exist at both levels, the traffic will not be admitted. Therefore, if you
              need to use such a setup, you should ensure that the "allow" rule exists on both
              levels. 


Ensure the CIDR block for the subnets is sized appropriately. In general there is no
            way to increase the subnet size without recreating the environment and VPC, although
            Data Warehouse service allows you to use overlay networks.

When using CCM on AWS, you have an option to use Public Endpoint Access Gateway. If you would
            like to use it, you should have at least 2 public subnets in the VPC. The exact number
            of public subnets should be equal to the number of private subnets. Furthermore,
            availability zones of the public and private subnets must match.

Depending on the CDP services that you are planning to use, you may also need the following: 
If you are planning to use Data Engineering, DataFlow, Data
            Warehouse, or Machine Learning you must enable Amazon DNS with the VPC.
          Corporate DNS is not supported. For guidelines on how verify your DNS settings, refer to
          sections 1-3 in AWS environment requirements checklist for the Data
            Warehouse service.If you are planning to use Data Engineering, DataFlow, or
            Machine Learning, you must tag the VPC and the subnets as shared
          so that Kubernetes can find them. For load balancers to be able to choose the subnets
          correctly, you are also required to tag private subnets with the
            kubernetes.io/role/internal-elb:1 tag, and public subnets with the
            kubernetes.io/role/elb:1 tag. 
If you want to use the private network feature with Data Warehouse service, you must
            have three public subnets and three private subnets in your VPC.
If you are planning to use the Data Warehouse service, you must verify that the
          VPC has the settings listed in the AWS environment requirements checklist for the Data
            Warehouse service.If you plan to use the private networking feature in the Data Warehouse service,
          refer to Supported deployment modes for private networking in
            AWS and Prerequisites for private networking in AWS
            environments.
If you are planning to use DataFlow, Data Engineering, Data Warehouse, or Machine
              Learning, you may also want to review the following AWS documentation: Amazon EKS - Cluster VPC Considerations and
              Creating a VPC for your Amazon EKS Cluster.


New VPC and subnets
If you choose to allow CDP to create a new VPC, six subnets will be created automatically.
        One subnet is created for each availability zone assuming three AZs per region; If a region
        has two AZs instead of three, then still three subnets are created, two in the same AZ.
You will need to specify a valid CIDR in IPv4 range that will be used to define the range of
        private IPs for EC2 instances provisioned into these subnets. Default is 10.10.0.0/16.
        Consider changing the IP range to correspond to corporate policies for standardized IP
        address ranges. The CIDR must match the <network mask>/16 pattern. 
By default CDP creates 6 subnets (3 private and 3 public) and divides the address space as
        follows: 
3 x /19 private subnets for FreeIPA, Data Lake, Data Hub, Data Warehouse,
            Machine Learning
3 x /24 public subnets

You can disable creating private subnets, in which case only 3 public subnets will be
        created. 
By default, when creating a new network, CDP uses public endpoints. But during environment
        registration you can optionally select the “Create Private Endpoints” option to use private
        endpoints instead of public endpoints. 
If you choose to use private endpoints, make sure to review Outbound network access destinations.
VPCs can be created and managed from the VPC console on AWS. For instructions on how to
        create a new VPC on AWS, refer to Create and configure your VPC in AWS documentation. 


Parent topic: AWS resources and services