S3 bucket, and IAM roles and policies for logs, backups, and data storageCloudera Docs
S3 bucket, and IAM roles and policies for logs, backups, and data storage 
CDP requires that you create and provide at least one S3 bucket for storing workload
    data and logs. You also need to create and provide multiple IAM roles and policies that allow
    access to the S3 bucket.
note
The Data Warehouse service creates its own S3 buckets, DynamoDB tables, and IAM roles and
        policies. It does not use the environment's S3 buckets, DynamoDB tables, and IAM roles and
        policies.

The S3 bucket is used for:


Storage location base - Workload data storage and Ranger audits
Logs location base - Service logs, FreeIPA logs
Backup location base - FreeIPA and Data Lake backups 


The S3 bucket must be in the same region as the environment. 
For detailed information about the required setup, review the following documentation:

Minimal setup for AWS cloud storageThis minimal secure setup uses one S3 bucket for each Data Lake, and multiple IAM roles         and policies. Onboarding CDP users and groups for AWS cloud storage (RAZ environments)If your AWS environment has Fine-grained access control enabled, you should onboard   your users using Ranger instead of using IDBroker. Onboarding CDP users and groups for AWS cloud storage (no RAZ)The minimal setup defined earlier spins up a CDP environment and Data Lake with no end     user access to cloud storage. Adding users and groups to a CDP environment involves ensuring     they are properly mapped to IAM roles to access cloud storage.IAM policy definitions for the minimal cloud storage setupUse the following IAM policy definitions when defining IAM policies for the minimal     cloud storage setup described in the parent topic. IAM policy definitions for cloud storage location usersUse the following IAM policy definitions when defining IAM policies for cloud storage         location users, such as data scientists and data engineers. Using S3 encryptionAWS S3 encryption requires additional permissions added to the IAM roles depending if   read only or read/write access is needed. Parent topic: AWS resources and services