Setting Asset filter rulesCloudera Docs
Setting Asset filter rules
Add Asset filter rules as needed to customize the selection and deselection of assets
        which the profiler profiles. 

noteYou can configure the Deny-list and
                    Allow-list for both Cluster Sensitivity
                    Profiler and Hive Column Profier. The same
                filter rules does not apply to Ranger Audit Profiler.












Deny-list - The profiler will skip profiling assets that
                    meet any defined Deny-list criteria.
Select the Deny-list tab.
Click Add New to include rules for
                            Deny-list.
Select the key from the drop down list. You can select a database name,
                            name of the asset, name of the owner of the asset, path to the assets,
                            or created date.
Select the operator from the drop down list. Depending on the keys
                            selected, you can select an operator such as equals, contains. For
                            example, you can select the name of assets that contain a particular
                            string.
Enter the value corresponding to the key. For example, you can enter a
                            string as mentioned in the previous example here.
Click Done. Once it is is added, you can toggle
                            the state of the new rule to enable it or disable it as needed.









Allow-list - The profiler will include only assets that
                    satisfy any defined Allow-list criteria. If no Allow-list is defined, the
                    profiler will profile all the assets.
Select the Allow-list tab.
Click Add New to include rules for the
                            Allow-list.
Select the key from the drop down list. You can select a database name,
                            name of the asset, name of the owner of the asset, path to the assets,
                            or created date.
Select the operator from the drop down list. Depending on the keys
                            selected, you can select an operator such as equals, contains. For
                            example, you can select the name of assets that contain a particular
                            string.
Enter the value corresponding to the key. For example, you can enter a
                            string as mentioned in the previous example.
Click Done. Once it is added, you can toggle the
                            state of the new rule to enable or disable it as needed.


noteIf an asset meets both Allow-list and
                            Deny-list rules, the
                            Deny-list rule overrides the
                            Allow-list.



Parent topic: Edit Profiler Configuration