Searching for assets across multiple data lakesCloudera Docs
Searching for assets across multiple data lakes 
In Data Catalog, the data lake search capabilities has been enhanced with the way you
        can search for the assets. You can now view the complete list of data lakes that are
        available in a specific Data Catalog instance. 
Previously, to search for assets using a data lake, a drop-down menu was available to
            select a data lake. You can now use the radio button to select a specific data lake.
The number of assets that are visible against each data lake indicate that they
            are applicable to the search query that match. You can select a specific data lake and
            select one or more search query types to retrieve the total list of available assets in
            the selected data lake. The total count of the selected data lake can change based on
            the type of filter that is applied. 
You can get the count of all the assets complying with the set search criteria
            from all the data lakes and display the same for each lake. Using the asset count
            details, you can optionally change the data lake and with which the result count is
            obtained from the selected lake. When you select a data lake, the search query gets
            updated by default. The previous query that was triggered on a previously selected data
            lake is not carried forward to the currently selected data lake.
For each selected data lake, you can set up different queries and the total
            asset count varies. Also, in certain scenarios, when a search query is triggered, the
            data lake count (when hovered on NA) displays the message Asset count for
                data lakes with Runtime version below 7.2.1 is not supported. The asset
            count for each selected data lake appears only if the Runtime version is above
            7.2.1.



In the event of a Glue lake being selected, the data lake count displays the
            message  Asset count is not supported for GLUE lakes or
                Asset count is not supported when a GLUE lake is
                selected.



Parent topic: Search for Assets