FiltersCloudera Docs
Filters
When you select a property value, a filter breadcrumb shows above the search results. 
You can further refine your search results using filters as follows:

Owner - From all the owner names that appear, you can select the
        owner to further refine the results and display those search results with the selected
        owner.
Database - Select the database to view all the assets stored in
        that database. This filter is applicable to Hive and
          HBase tables only. noteFor information purposes, Database filter
          is displayed as Namespace in case of HBase
        tables.
Entity Tag - Use entity tags to refine your search results. You can
        add business metadata as entity tags in Atlas and use these tags to refine your search
        results and view the details of the required data asset. 
Created Within - You can choose to refine your search results of
        assets within the data lake to view the data assets created within the last 7 days, 15 days,
        or 30 days. You can also add custom values such as 5 days or 10 days to view specific
        information. 
Created Before - Depending on the time when the assets were
        created, you can choose to refine the search results and view data assets created before 1
        day, 7 days, or 15 days. You can add custom values to view data assets created before the
        days of your preference such as 8 days or 12 days.noteThese two filters (Created
            Within and Created Before) are applicable only when
            Atlas provides the created time for the assets.
Column Tag - You can search
          for Hive and HBase table assets by tags that
        have been applied on their children entities, that is, columns or column families using the
        column tags filter.
Glossary - You can filter assets based on business glossary terms.
        You can search for any asset without any entity type restrictions.

Click Clear for any filter to clear the selection. You can use a
      combination of filters to view the required data assets.

Parent topic: Search for Assets