Configuring Ranger authorization for Solr in a DDE Data Hub clusterCloudera Docs
Configuring Ranger authorization for Solr in a DDE Data Hub cluster
By default, the Solr service deployed with a Data Discovery and Experience (DDE)
        cluster is not configured for authorization by Ranger. You can configure authorization
        manually, using Cloudera Management Console. 

Minimum Required Role: environmentAdmin


Navigate to the Ranger service of the data lake where
                    DDE is running.

On the Service Manager page, click the
                        Add icon next to Solr.

Enter the following information on the Create Service
                    page:

Service Details


Field name
Description



Service Name

Assign a name to the Solr service you want to
                                            create.
Note down the value you define here. You need
                                            to enter it later, when specifying the
                                                ranger.plugin.solr.service.name
                                            parameter in the Solr Service Advanced Configuration
                                            Snippet (Safety Valve) for ranger-solr-security.xml
                                            option.



Active Status
Enabled


Select Tag Service
Select cm_tag. 


Configuration Properties


Field name
Description



Username
Assign a placeholder value. This property is not used in
                                        case of Kerberos authentication.


Password
Assign a placeholder value. This property is not used in
                                        case of Kerberos authentication.


Solr URL
Assign a placeholder value. This property is not used in
                                        case of Kerberos authentication.


Add new configurations

Add the following new configurations:


policy.download.auth.users =
                                                  solr


tag.download.auth.users =
                                                  solr





note
Do not click Test connection. In this use case it
                            is not necessary and it does not work.



Click Save.

Click on the newly added service.
The List of Policies page opens.

Under Action click the Edit
                    icon.

In Allow Conditions > Select User dropdown select hue.
This is necessary because the Hue service breaks if it has no permission to
                    access Solr. To keep the cluster accessible to non-admin users, you can add
                        other users to the default policy or you can define additional
                    policies.

Grant full admin privileges to users that you want to be able to access the
                    Solr Admin UI.


Click Add under Allow
                                Conditions to add a new condition, then add the user or
                            users from the Select User drop-down.


Click Add Permissions then select the
                                Select/Deselect All option.


Accept the selection, then click Save.



Navigate to the Cloudera Manager (CM) UI on the DDE cluster.

From Clusters select Solr.

Select the Configuration tab.

In the Search field start typing ‘safety’ 

Click Add under Solr Service Advanced
                        Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve).

Define the following:


Key
ranger.plugin.solr.service.name
Value

The Solr Service Name you assigned when
                                    creating the Solr service in Ranger.




Click Save Changes.

Click the Status tab to refresh the window.

Click the Stale Configuration: Restart needed indicator
                    on top of the page.

Click Restart Stale Services.

Click Restart Now.


