Apache Hive query basicsCloudera Docs
Apache Hive query
      basics
Using Apache Hive, you
      can query distributed data storage. You need to know ANSI SQL to view, maintain, or analyze
      Hive data. Examples of the basics, such as how to insert, update, and delete data from a
      table, helps you get started with Hive. 
Hive supports ANSI SQL and atomic, consistent, isolated, and durable (ACID) transactions.
         For updating data, you can use the MERGE statement, which meets ACID standards.
         Materialized views optimize queries based on access patterns. Hive supports tables up to
         300PB in Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) format. Other file formats are also supported. You
         can create tables that resemble those in a traditional relational database. You use
         familiar insert, update, delete, and merge SQL statements to query table data. The insert
         statement writes data to tables. Update and delete statements modify and delete values
         already written to Hive. The merge statement streamlines updates, deletes, and changes data
         capture operations by drawing on co-existing tables. These statements support auto-commit
         that treats each statement as a separate transaction and commits it after the SQL statement
         is executed.

Related informationORC Language Manual on the Apache wikiQuerying the information_schema databaseHive supports the ANSI-standard information_schema database, which you can query for         information about tables, views, columns, and your Hive privileges. The information_schema         data reveals the state of the system, similar to sys database data, but in a user-friendly,         read-only way. You can use joins, aggregates, filters, and projections in information_schema         queries.Inserting data into a table To insert data into a table you use a familiar ANSI  SQL statement. A simple example     shows you have to accomplish this basic task.Updating data in a tableThe syntax describes the UPDATE statement you use to modify data already stored in a       table. An example shows how to apply the syntax.Merging data in tablesA sample statement shows how you can conditionally insert existing data in Hive tables     using the ACID MERGE statement.  Additional merge operations are mentioned.Deleting data from a tableYou use the DELETE statement to delete data already written to an ACID     table.Creating a temporary tableIn CDP Private Cloud Base, you can create a temporary table to improve performance by storing       data temporarily for intermediate use, or reuse, by a complex query.Using a subqueryHive supports subqueries in FROM clauses and WHERE clauses that you can use for many     Apache Hive operations, such as filtering data from one table based on contents of another     table.Use wildcards with SHOW DATABASES In a SHOW DATABASES LIKE statement, you can use wildcards, and in this release of         Hive, specify any character or a single character.Aggregating and grouping dataYou use AVG, SUM, or MAX functions to aggregate data, and the GROUP BY clause to group data query results in     one or more table columns..Querying correlated dataYou can query one table relative to the data in another table.Using common table expressionsUsing common table expression (CTE), you can create a temporary view that repeatedly references a subquery.Comparing tables using ANY/SOME/ALLYou learn how to use quantified comparison predicates (ANY/SOME/ALL) in         non-correlated subqueries according to the SQL standard. SOME is any alias for         ANY.Escaping an invalid identifierWhen you need to use reserved words, special characters, or a space in a column or     partition name, enclose it in backticks (`).CHAR data type supportKnowing how Hive supports the CHAR data type compared to other databases is critical during migration.ORC vs Parquet formatsThe differences between Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) file format for storing data in     SQL engines are important to understand. Query performance improves when you use the appropriate     format for your application.