Locating Hive tables and changing the locationCloudera Docs
Locating Hive tables and changing the location
You need to know where Hive stores tables on your object store or file system. Also,
        right after installing Hive-on-Tez, you might also want to change the warehouse location. 
 New tables that you create in CDP are stored in either the Hive warehouse for
            managed tables or the Hive warehouse for external tables. The following default
            warehouse locations are in the HDFS file system:
/warehouse/tablespace/managed/hive
/warehouse/tablespace/external/hive
Managed tables reside in the managed tablespace, which only Hive can access. By
                default, Hive assumes external tables reside in the external tablespace. To
                determine the managed or external table type, you can run the DESCRIBE EXTENDED
                table_name command. You need to set Ranger policies to access external tables
                in the object store or file system, such as HDFS.  The capability to change the
            location of the Hive warehouse is intended for use immediately after installing the
            service. You can change the location of the warehouse using the Hive Metastore Action
            menu in Cloudera Manager as described in the following steps: 

In Cloudera Manager, click 
                    Clusters > Hive > Action Menu > Create Hive Warehouse  Directory.
                   
                

In Cloudera Manager, click Clusters > Hive (the Hive Metastore service) > Configuration, and change the hive.metastore.warehouse.dir
                    property value to the path for the new Hive warehouse directory.

Click Hive > Hive > Action Menu > Create Hive Warehouse External Directory.

 Change the hive.metastore.warehouse.external.dir property
                    value to the path for the Hive warehouse external directory.

Configure Ranger Hadoop SQL policy to access the URL of the directory on the
                    object store, such as S3 or Ozone, or file system, such as HDFS.


Parent topic: Apache Hive 3 tables