Partition refresh and configurationCloudera Docs
Partition refresh and configuration
You can discover partition changes and synchronize Hive metadata automatically.
        Performing synchronization automatically, instead of manually, can save substantial time,
        especially when partitioned data, such as logs, changes frequently. You can also configure
        how long to retain partition data and metadata.

After creating a partitioned table, Hive does not update metadata about corresponding
                objects or directories on the file system that you add or drop. The partition
                metadata in the Hive metastore becomes stale after corresponding objects/directories
                are added or deleted. You need to synchronize the metastore and the file system.
                You can refresh Hive metastore partition information manually or
                automatically. The time it takes to refresh the partition information is
                proportional to the number of partitions involved.
Manually You run the MSCK (metastore consistency check) Hive command:
                                MSCK REPAIR TABLE <table_name> ADD/DROP/SYNC
                                PARTITIONS every time you need to synchronize a partition
                            with the file system.This command triggers a full repair which
                            might take a longer time if the number of partitions are more. Instead,
                            you can use operators in the command, such as EQUAL, NOTEQUAL,
                            LESSTHANOREQUALTO, LESSTHAN, GREATERTHANOREQUALTO, GREATERTHAN, or LIKE
                            in the partition column so that a larger subset of partitions can be
                            recovered (added/removed) without triggering a full
                            repair.Syntax: MSCK REPAIR TABLE <table_name>
                                ADD/DROP/SYNC PARTITIONS
                                (<pcol1><operator><value>,<pcol2><operator><value>);
AutomaticallyYou set up partition discovery to occur
                        periodically.
The discover.partitions table property is automatically
                created and enabled for external partitioned tables. When
                    discover.partitions is enabled for a table, Hive performs an
                automatic refresh as follows: 
Adds corresponding partitions that are in the file system, but not in the
                        metastore, to the metastore.
Removes partition schema information from metastore if you removed the
                        corresponding partitions from the file system. 
Partition retentionYou can configure how long to keep
            partition metadata and data, and remove it after the retention period elapses.
                    Limitations Generally, partition discovery and retention is not
            recommended for use on managed tables. The Hive metastore acquires an exclusive lock on
            a table that enables partition discovery that can slow down other queries. 

Related informationCreating partitions dynamicallyApache Wiki: Discover Partitions and Partition RetentionAutomating partition discovery and repairAutomated partition discovery and repair is useful for processing log data, and other data, in         Spark and Hive catalogs. You learn how to set the partition discovery parameter to suit your         use case.  An aggressive partition discovery and repair configuration can delay the upgrade process.  Managing partition retention timeYou can keep the size of the Apache Hive metadata and data you accumulate for log         processing, and other activities, to a manageable size by setting a retention period for the         data. Parent topic: Partitions and performance