Streams Replication Manager recommended deployment architectureCloudera Docs
Streams Replication Manager recommended deployment architecture
Learn about pull mode, which is  the Cloudera recommended deployment architecture for
    Streams Replication Manager.
While Streams Replication Manager (SRM) can be deployed in many different ways, the Cloudera
      recommended setup is pull mode. Pull mode refers to an SRM deployment where data replication
      happens by pulling data from remote source clusters, rather than pushing data into remote
      target clusters. An SRM deployment that is in pull mode conforms to the following: 
A unique SRM installation is deployed on all clusters that host a target Kafka
            cluster.In other words, each target Kafka cluster in the deployment has a co-located
            SRM installation.
SRM Drivers only execute replications that target their co-located Kafka cluster.
SRM Services only target their co-located Kafka cluster.

The reason why pull mode is recommended is because this is the deployment type that was found
      to provide the highest amount of resilience against various timeout and network instability
      issues. For example:

SRM Drivers run Connect workers which are coordinating through the target cluster of the
        replication flow. This means that Connect workers are more closely tied to the target
        cluster than the source cluster. Having the SRM Drivers and the target Kafka cluster closely
        located to each other minimizes group membership and rebalance timeout issues. Additionally,
        this also minimizes the network instability on the producer side of the SRM Drivers which
        reduces data duplication in the target cluster.
SRM Services also coordinate through the target cluster. This makes them more sensitive to
        timeout and network partition issues tied to the target cluster. In addition, the SRM
        Service reads from and writes to the target Kafka through the Kafka Streams application.
        Having the SRM Services and the target Kafka clusters closely located to each other can
        minimize timeout and network partition issues. Additionally, for Kafka clusters in the
        cloud, hosting the SRM Service in the same data center as the Kafka cluster can help keep
        cloud costs to a minimum. 
In a situation where there is a network partition, or one of the clusters in the
        replication is unavailable, it is preferable to let the target cluster pull the data when
        the connection is finally established, rather than the source cluster trying to push data
        indefinitely.

Pull mode deployment example
noteThe following simple example does not go into the detail regarding the exact
        configuration steps required to set up SRM or your clusters. It is meant to provide you with
        a general overview of how a pull mode deployment looks like. For configuration how to
        documentation see, How
            to > Streaming > Configuring Streams Replication
            Manager in the Cloudera Runtime documentation.
Consider a simple deployment that has three clusters. Cluster A, B, and C. Each of them has
        a Kafka cluster. 

To achieve a pull mode deployment, you must deploy SRM (both Service and Driver) on all
        three clusters. The Services and Drivers must target their co-located Kafka cluster. 
To be more precise, in the case of Driver targets, what you must ensure is that each source
        cluster is targeted by at least a single Driver. This is required so that a heartbeats topic
        is created in that cluster. This is ensured in the this example because each Kafka has a
        co-located Driver targeting it. However, if you have a unidirectional replication setup,
        where the source Kafka cluster does not have a co-located SRM installation, you must ensure
        that one of your Drivers is targeting that Kafka cluster. 

Once setup is complete, you can start configuring your replications. For example, assume
        that you want to have data replicated from Cluster B and C to cluster A. In this case, you
        need to enable two separate replications, B->A and C->A. To achieve pull mode, the two
        replications must be executed by SRM Driver B. 

Any number of replications can be set up between the clusters, but you must always ensure
        that each Driver is only executing the replications targeting their co-located cluster. For
        example, assume that in addition to the replications set up previously, you also want to set
        up replication to Cluster B from Cluster A and Cluster C. In this case, the deployment would
        changes as follows.



