Connecting to Grafana dashboards in Cloudera Data Engineering Public CloudCloudera Docs
Connecting to Grafana dashboards in Cloudera Data Engineering Public Cloud
This topic describes how to access Grafana dashboards for advanced visualization of
        Virtual Cluster's metrics such as memory and CPU usage in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)
        Public Cloud.
importantThe user interface
            for CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy
            access to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example, the
                Overview page has been replaced with the
                Home page. To view CDE Services, click
                Administration in the left-hand menu. The new home page still
            displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links located at the top for
            the following categories: Jobs, Resources,
            and Download & Docs.
CDE ServiceVirtual Cluster

In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) management console, click the
                            Data Engineering tile and click
                            Overview.
In the CDE Services column, click the
                            Service Details button on the environment for
                        which you want to see the Grafana dashboard. 
In the Service details page, click Grafana
                            Charts in the hamburger menu. A read-only version of the
                        Grafana interface opens in a new tab in your browser. 
Select Virtual Cluster Metrics under the
                            Dashboards pane. 
Click on a virtual cluster name from the dropdown list to view the Grafana
                        charts. Information about CPU requests, memory requests, jobs, and other
                        information related to the virtual cluster is displayed.



Navigate to the Cloudera Data Engineering Overview
                        page by clicking the Data Engineering
                        tile in the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) management
                        console.
In the Service details column, select the environment
                        containing the virtual cluster for which you want to see the Grafana
                        dashboard.
In the Virtual Clusters column on the right, click
                        the Cluster Details icon of the virtual cluster. 
                            The virtual cluster's Overview page is
                            displayed.
In the Overview page, click Grafana
                            Charts. A read-only version of the Grafana interface
                            opens in a new tab in your browser.

Information about CPU requests, memory requests, jobs, and other
                            information related to the virtual cluster is displayed.
In the Virtual Cluster Metrics page, click on a
                        virtual cluster name from the Virtual Cluster
                        dropdown list to view the Grafana charts of that virtual
                        cluster.



