Downloading a diagnostic bundle for Cloudera Data EngineeringCloudera Docs
Downloading a diagnostic bundle for Cloudera Data Engineering
This section describes how to download a diagnostic bundle to troubleshoot a Cloudera
    Data Engineering (CDE) Service in Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) using CDE UI. 

To troubleshoot issues with your CDE Service, download diagnostic bundles of log
        files. These diagnostic bundles, in the form of ZIP files, are downloaded to your local
        machine. This is available on both AWS and Azure environments.


Required Role: DEAdmin
After granting or revoking the role on the environment, run the Sync
          Users to FreeIPA environment action.


Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the CDE service

In the CDE service, click Overview in the left navigation panel,
          and select the CDE Service for which you want to download a diagnostic bundle.

In the selected CDE service, click on the three-dot menu, and select the
            Download Diagnostics option.






On the Diagnostics tab of the Service details, click the Generate
            Diagnostics Bundle button.
The Diagnostic Bundle Options dialog box launches.

Set the time range and select the log sources that you want to include:




In the dialog box, you can choose or set the following options:

Pre-defined Range: Select a specific time range of log files to generate from
              the drop-down list, or you can choose a custom interval in the next option.
Custom Range: Select the start and end time from the drop-down list to define
              the specific time interval for the log files in the diagnostic bundle.
Log Sources: Select All or any of the available categories of log files for
              the different Services and virtual clusters by clicking the adjacent checkbox.



After selecting which log sources you want to include in the diagnostic bundle, click
            Generate to generate the bundle.

When the diagnostic bundle is created, click Download.


When you extract the diagnostic bundle .gz file that you downloaded from CDE UI,
        you  find the directories that contain service log files and summary status.


Parent topic: Cloudera Data Engineering diagnostic bundles and summary status