Enabling deep analysis on a Cloudera Data Engineering job from the CDE web UICloudera Docs
Enabling deep analysis on a Cloudera Data Engineering job from the CDE web UI
Using the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) web UI you can enable an on-demand deep
      analysis on a CDE job run to generate detailed information, including memory
    utilization and stage-level analysis.

importantDeep analysis is currently supported only for Spark
        2 jobs. For Spark 3 jobs, the Spark Analysis
        toggle is greyed out.
importantThe user interface
        for  CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy
        access  to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example, the 
          Overview page has been replaced with the 
          Home page. To view CDE Services, click 
          Administration in the left-hand menu. The new home page still 
        displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links located at the top for the 
        following categories: Jobs, Resources, and 
          Download & Docs. 

Because deep analysis consumes cluster resources by running an internal CDE job, you must
        enable and run it manually for any job run you want to analyze or troubleshoot.

From the CDE Overview page, select the
          CDE service for the job you want to troubleshoot or
        analyze.In the Virtual Clusters column, click
          the View Jobs icon for the cluster containing
          the job.Select the job you want to analyze.
Select the Configuration tab and click
            Edit. 

Select the Spark Analysis option.
This enables collecting metrics during future runs of the job that you want to
          investigate.

Click Update.

Click Actions > Run Now to run the job.
Metrics are collected for deep analysis.


importantDo not forget to disable Spark
          Analysis on the Configuration tab once the deep
        analysis job completes. It adds unnecessary overhead and can have a negative impact on
        performance. 


Parent topic: Cloudera Data Engineering Deep Analysis