Accessing the Kubernetes dashboardCloudera Docs
Accessing the Kubernetes dashboard
As a user with the DEAdmin role, you can access the Kubernetes dashboard in Cloudera
    Data Engineering (CDE) for troubleshooting and debugging of the cluster deployment. 

The Kubernetes dashboard is to be used for troubleshooting in coordination with
        Cloudera support. The Kubernetes dashboard allows you to view and download diagnostics and
        container logs. Additionally, the DEAdmin can initiate limited actions such as restarting
        pods, modifying configuration maps and deployments which is beneficial for a debugging
        session.

noteIf you prefer to to use the kubectl tool for troubleshooting
          instead, see Enabling kubectl for CDE linked below. The kubectl tool is also to be used in
          coordination with Cloudera support.



Ensure that you have the DEAdmin role.
importantThe user interface for
        CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy access
        to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example, the
          Overview page has been replaced with the
          Home page. To view CDE Services, click
          Administration in the left-hand menu. The new home page still
        displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links located at the top for the
        following categories: Jobs, Resources, and
          Download & Docs.


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) management console, click the Data
            Engineering tile and click Overview.

In the CDE Services column, click Service
            Details.

Copy the Resource Scheduler URL and open a new browser
          window/tab.

Paste the Resource Scheduler URL in your new browser window/tab and edit the URL as
          follows:


Replace "YuniKorn" with "dashboard", (For example, https://dashboard...).


Press Enter




The Kubernetes Dashboard displays and provides an easy user experience for
        monitoring your diagnostics. 


Related informationDeploy and Access the Kubernetes DashboardEnabling kubectl for CDE