Running deep analysis on a Cloudera Data Engineering job runCloudera Docs
Running deep analysis on a Cloudera Data Engineering job run
You can run an on-demand deep analysis on a Cloudera Data Engineering
        (CDE) job run to generate detailed information, including memory utilization and stage-level
        analysis.


You must enable deep analysis for the job you want to analyze and run the job
                    once to collect data.
importantThe user interface for  CDE
                1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy
                access  to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example,
                the  Overview page has been replaced with the 
                    Home page. To view CDE Services,
                click  Administration in the left-hand menu. The new home
                page still  displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links located
                at the top for the  following categories: Jobs,
                    Resources, and  Download &
                    Docs.

You can only analyze job runs that took place after Spark Analysis was enabled for
            the job.

From the CDE Overview page, select the CDE service for
                    the job you want to troubleshoot or analyze.

In the Virtual Clusters column, click the
                        View Jobs icon for the cluster containing the
                    job.

In the Run History tab, click the Job
                        ID for the job run you want to analyze.

Go to the Analysis tab.

Click Run Deep Analysis.

After the deep analysis job completes, you can view
            additional job run information in the Analysis tab for the job
            run.

importantDo not forget to disable Spark
                    Analysis on the Configuration tab once the
                deep analysis job completes. It adds unnecessary overhead and can have a negative
                impact on performance. 


Parent topic: Cloudera Data Engineering Deep Analysis