Fastcapa-Kafka Configuration FileCloudera Docs
Fastcapa-Kafka Configuration File
The Kafka configuration file defines how Fastcapa interacts with
      librdkafka.
You specify the path to the
            configuration file with the -c command-line argument. The file can
            contain any global or topic-specific, producer-focused configuration values accepted by
            Librdkafka.
The configuration file is a .ini-like Glib configuration file. Place
              the global configuration values under a [kafka-global] header and place
              topic-specific values under [kafka-topic].
A minimally viable configuration file only needs to include the Kafka broker to
              connect to:

                              [kafka-global]
metadata.broker.list = kafka-broker1:9092, kafka-broker2:9092

                           
The configuration parameters that are important for either basic functioning or
              performance tuning of Fastcapa include the following.



Name


Description


Default




metadata.broker.list
Initial list of brokers as a CSV list of broker host or
                        host:port
NA


client.id
Client identifier.



queue.buffering.max.messages
Maximum number of messages allowed on the producer queue
100000


queue.buffering.max.ms
Maximum time, in milliseconds, for buffering data on the producer
                        queue
1000


message.copy.max.bytes
Maximum size for the message to be copied to buffer. Messages larger
                        than this are passed by reference (zero-copy) at the expense of larger
                        iovecs.
65535


batch.num.messages
Maximum number of messages batched in one MessageSet
10000


statistics.interval.ms
How often statistics are emitted; 0 = never
0


compression.codec
Compression codec to use for compressing message sets: none, gzip,
                        snappy, lz4
none


Local global configuration values under the [kafka-global]
              header.
Locate topic configuration values under the [kafka-topic]
              header.



Description
Default



compression.codec
Compression codec to use for compressing message sets: none, gzip,
                        snappy, lz4
none


request.required.acks
How many acknowledgements the leader broker must receive from ISR
                        brokers before responding to the request; { 0 = no ack, 1 = leader ack, -1 =
                        all ISRs }
1


message.timeout.ms
Local message timeout. This value is only enforced locally and limits
                        the time a produced message waits for successful delivery. A value of 0
                        represents infinity.
300000


queue.buffering.max.kbytes
Maximum total message size sum allowed on the producer queue
none



Parent topic: Using Fastcapa