Leader positions and in-sync replicasCloudera Docs
Leader positions and in-sync replicas
An overview of how leader positions and in-sync replicas can affect Kafka
    performance.Consider the following example which shows a simplified version of a Kafka cluster in steady
      state. There are N brokers, two topics with nine partitions each. Replicated partitions are
      not shown for simplicity.Figure 1. Kafka Cluster in Steady State

In this example, each broker shown has three partitions per topic and the Kafka cluster
      has well balanced leader partitions. Recall the following:
Producer writes and consumer reads occur at the partition level.
Leader partitions are responsible for ensuring that the follower partitions keep their
        records in sync.
Since the leader partitions are evenly distributed, most of the time the load to the
      overall Kafka cluster is relatively balanced.Leader Positions
Now lets look at an example where a large chunk of the leaders for Topic A and Topic B are
        on Broker 1. 
Figure 2. Kafka Cluster with Leader Partition Imbalance


In a scenario like this a lot more of the overall Kafka workload occurs on Broker 1.
        Consequently this also causes a backlog of work, which slows down the cluster throughput,
        which will worsen the backlog. Even if a cluster starts with perfectly balanced topics,
        failures of brokers can cause these imbalances: if the leader of a partition goes down one
        of the replicas will become the leader. When the original (preferred) leader comes back, it
        will get back leadership only if automatic leader rebalancing is enabled; otherwise the node
        will become a replica and the cluster gets imbalanced.
In-Sync Replicas
Let’s take a closer look at Topic A from the previous example that had imbalanced leader
        partitions. However, this time let's visualize follower partitions as well:

Broker 1 has six leader partitions, broker 2 has two leader partitions, and broker 3 has
          one leader partition.
Assuming a replication factor of 3.

Figure 3. Kafka Topic with Leader and Follower Partitions


Assuming all replicas are in-sync, then any leader partition can be moved from Broker 1 to
        another broker without issue. However, in the case where some of the follower partitions
        have not caught up, then the ability to change leaders or have a leader election will be
        hampered.

Parent topic: Kafka Architecture