Amazon Web Services support in Cloudera Data Warehouse Public CloudCloudera Docs
Amazon Web Services support in Cloudera Data Warehouse Public Cloud
This topic provides an overview of Amazon Web Services (AWS) support in Cloudera Data
    Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud.
importantEnsure your AWS environment satisfies the items listed in the AWS environments requirements checklist.
The "environment" concept in Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) is closely related to the virtual
     private network in your AWS account. Registering an environment provides CDP
     with access to your AWS account and identifies the resources there that CDP
     services can access or provision. A single environment is contained within a
     single AWS region, so all resources deployed by CDP are deployed within that
     region within one specific virtual network. Once you've registered an
     environment with Management Console, you can start provisioning resources such as
     clusters, which run on the physical infrastructure in an AWS data center.
The following diagram shows the components of a CDP environment on AWS:



The diagram includes all major user-created and CDP-created components of an AWS
     environment:

Items in dark blue boxes with orange outlines can be automatically provisioned by
       CDP in your AWS account. Or you can optionally pre-create them in your AWS account and then
       provide them when registering an environment in CDP.
Items in dark blue boxes must be pre-created by your CDP
       administrator prior to environment registration and then provided during environment
       registration in CDP.
Items in orange boxes are automatically provisioned on AWS by CDP as part of environment
       registration.

noteItems that are user-created are not terminated when a CDP environment is
     deleted.
Information that describes how to register an AWS environment with CDP is linked to at the
     end of this page.
Data Warehouse service features for AWS environments
CDP Data Warehouse service offers the following additional features for AWS environments
       that are used for Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses:

Restrict access to Kubernetes endpoints and to service endpoints of the Kubernetes
         cluster at the load balancer lever by specifying a list of IP CIDRs that are allowed
           access. For more information, see "Restricting endpoint access in AWS," which is
         linked to at the end of this page.
Set up private networking in AWS environments, which uses AWS private subnets. Private
         subnets receive no direct inbound connections from the internet, providing private network
         connectivity for workload endpoints in Data Warehouse service. For more information, see
         "Set up private networking in AWS," which is linked to at the end of this page.

These features require additional configuration in the Data Warehouse service UI to use
       them.


Related informationAWS account requirementsAWS credentialsHow to register AWS environmentsRestricting endpoint access in AWSSet up private networking in AWS