Creating a CDSW data connection to a data warehouseCloudera Docs
Creating a CDSW data connection to a data warehouse
Learn how to connect natively to data stored in a data warehouse when using CDP Data
    Visualization in Cloudera Data Science Workbench (CDSW).

You must connect to your data prior to using the data modeling and visualization
        functionalities. The following steps show you how to create a new CDSW data connection to a
        running Impala system.
note
Only users who have the Manage data connections privilege or administrators can
          create and manage connections in CDP Data Visualization. You must be an administrator to
          be able to set privileges for a user. If you want to log in as an administrator, you can
          use the default admin account:
username: vizapps_admin
password: vizapps_admin


When you create a connection, you automatically have privileges to create and manage
        datasets on this connection, and to build dashboards and visuals in these datasets.

For more information on the Manage data connections privilege, see RBAC
            permissions.
For instructions on how to define privileges for a role, see Setting role
            privileges.
For instructions on how to assign the administrator role to a user, see Promoting
            a user to administrator.


On the main navigation bar, click DATA.
The DATA interface appears, open on the
              Datasets tab.

In the Data side menu bar, click NEW
            CONNECTION.noteThe NEW CONNECTION
            button is only accessible to users assigned to roles with Manage data connections
            privilege and to administrators.The
            Create New Data Connection modal window appears.Select a Connection type from the drop-down
        list.Provide a name for the connection.Enter the hostname or IP address of the running coordinator.In this
          example, you can see to create an Impala connection. You can get the coordinator hostname
          from the JDBC URL of the Impala DW.Under Port #, enter the port number.Use your workload username and password as credentials.Click the Advanced tab and make the appropriate
          selections.
importantDepending on the type of connection you are creating, there can be
            additional tabs in the Create New Data Connection modal window
            where you have to adjust further settings.
The selections below are correct for the Cloudera iedh system.

Click TEST.If the connection is valid, the
          system returns a Connection Verified message.Click CONNECT.
You have set up a connection to a running data
      warehouse.

Related informationRBAC permissionsSetting role privilegesPromoting a user to administratorParent topic: Connecting to a data source in CDP Data Visualization