Creating a Data Visualization instance in CDWCloudera Docs
Creating a Data Visualization instance in CDW
Learn how to create a Cloudera Data Visualization (CDV) instance in the Cloudera Data
    Warehouse (CDW) data service.

If you want to visualize your data, you have to create a Data Visualization instance and
        connect it to Hive or Impala Virtual Warehouse(s) to be able to create visuals. You can
        create multiple instances of Data Visualization to connect to different data sets and to
        share with different users.



You are logged into the CDP web interface and you have opened the Data Warehouse
          service.
You have DWAdmin role in CDW.
You have activated your environment.
You have a a Hive/Impala warehouse in running state.



In Cloudera Data Warehouse, click Data Visualization in the left
          navigation panel.
A list of existing Data Visualization instances appears, if there are any.



Click ADD NEW to create a new instance.
If you are creating the first Data Visualization instance in CDW, click
            CREATE.

Provide the following information in the New Data Visualization
          modal window:


Name: Specify a name for the instance.


Environments: Select your environment.


User Groups: Add user groups to allow user access to Data
              Visualization for selected users.


Admin Groups: Add admin groups to allow configuration access
              to Data Visualization for selected users.

For more information on Data Visualization permission granularity, see the Security model.



Tagging: Enter keys and values to apply tags to your
              resources for organizing them into a taxonomy.


Size: Select the size of the compute instance from the
              drop-down menu.








Click CREATE.


Your Data Visualization instance is created. You can open the instance and connect it to a
        Virtual Warehouse to create visuals, dashboards, and applications based on the stored
        data.

Start Data Visualization in CDW

Parent topic: Starting Data Visualization integrated in CDW