Adding data in CSV formatCloudera Docs
Adding data in CSV format
Learn how to import data from flat CSV files in Cloudera Data
    Visualization.

The files may be comma-delimited or use other delimiting characters. If you want to import
        data stored in Excel format, see Preparing Excel files for data import.
This feature is available on the following connections: 

Enabled by default:
Disabled by default:




SQLite
Hive
Impala
Snowflake
Spark SQL




DuckDB
MS SQL
Teradata






On the main navigation bar, click DATA.

The Data view appears, open on the Datasets tab.





Click  ADD DATA.
The Add Data modal window appears.



Select the CSV option, and click Choose file.

Using your computer's native browser, find and select the data file and confirm file
          selection.

In the Add Data modal window, check the name of the file you
          added and click GET DATA.

Ensure that your data is configured correctly before confirming the import:


Under Database, specify samples.
              Alternatively, you can select another database.
Under Table Name, specify a table. The system typically
              assigns a numerical suffix that you can remove.
Under Upon Import, select whether you only want to import the
              data or create a dataset and a dashboard based on the data.
If you select Create Dataset, you are taken to the
                    Detail page of the dataset you have created when the
                  import is completed.
If you select Create Dataset and Dashboard, you are taken
                  to the newly created dashboard when the import is completed.

For Column Delimiter, define the delimiter used in the source
              file. In this case, the column delimiter is Comma, but it can also be
                Tab, Space, Semicolon, Colon, Pipe, Control
                A, or Other. Make the necessary adjustments to this field.
Under Locale Setting, you can select one of the common
              options: United States, United Kingdom, Sweden, Norway, or
                Other. Selecting Other adds a separate field next to the locale
              setting where you can specify the supported locale. For more information, see
                Changing the locale setting of an imported file.
Under Options, select the data clean-up tasks that Data
              Visualization provides prior to data import. These include File contains
                headers, Fill missing columns, Skip malformed rows, and Use '\'
                as escape character. noteData Visualization can detect
                many items, for example the presence of header rows, automatically.
In the Data Table preview, each column of the table appears
              with its data type and name. Data Visualization detects the data type automatically,
              but you can change it in this interface prior to import. For example, you may wish to
              store numerical categories as strings. The data types are Boolean,
                Integer, Real, String, and Timestamp.
You can change the name of the table column before
              importing.






Click APPLY CHANGES to ensure that all adjustments you made are
          saved.

Click CONFIRM IMPORT.
The Confirm File Import modal window appears, where you have to
          click CONFIRM IMPORT again.



To verify that the data has been imported correctly into your system, check the
            Connection Explorer interface.


Related informationPreparing Excel files for data importChanging the locale setting of an imported fileParent topic: Adding data