Creating a CML data connection to a Hive data warehouseCloudera Docs
Creating a CML data connection to a Hive data warehouse
Learn how to connect natively to data stored in Hive when using Data Visualization in
    Cloudera Machine Learning (CML).

You must connect to your data prior to using the data modeling and visualization
        functionalities. The following steps show you how to create a new CML data connection to a
        Hive data warehouse.
note
Only users who have the Manage data connections privilege or administrators can
          create and manage connections in Cloudera Data Visualization.
You must be an administrator to be able to set privileges for a user. If you want to log
          in as an administrator, you can use the default admin account:
username: vizapps_admin
password: vizapps_admin


When you create a connection, you automatically have privileges to create and manage
        datasets on this connection, and to build dashboards and visuals in these datasets.

For more information on the Manage data connections privilege, see RBAC
            permissions.
For instructions on how to define privileges for a role, see Setting role
            privileges.
For instructions on how to assign the administrator role to a user, see Promoting
            a user to administrator.


On the main navigation bar, click DATA.
The DATA interface appears, open on the
              Datasets tab.



In the Data side menu bar, click NEW
            CONNECTION.noteThe NEW CONNECTION
            button is only accessible to users assigned to roles with Manage data connections
            privilege and to administrators.The
            Create New Data Connection modal window appears.Select the Hive
Connection type from the drop-down list and enter the hostname or
          IP address of the running coordinator.You can get the coordinator hostname
          from the JDBC URL of the Hive DW.Use port 443.Click the Advanced tab and make the selections below:

Click the Parameters tab and set the
            hive.server2.async.exec.async.compile parameter to
            false.Use your workload username and password as credentials.
Click TEST and then CONNECT to create the
          connection.

You have set up a connection to a running Hive DW.

Related informationRBAC permissionsSetting role privilegesPromoting a user to administratorParent topic: Connecting to a data source in Cloudera Data Visualization