Adding data through URLCloudera Docs
Adding data through URL
Learn how to how to add a data file using a URL in Cloudera Data
        Visualization.

These data files are typically in JSON format. The files may be comma-delimited or
                they use other delimiting characters.noteThis feature is
                    available on the following connections:

Enabled by default:
Disabled by default:




SQLite
Hive
Impala
Snowflake
Spark SQL




DuckDB
MS SQL
Teradata






On the main navigation bar, click DATA.

The Data view appears, open on the Datasets tab.





Click  ADD DATA.
The Add Data modal window appears.



Select the URL option, and add the address of the file to the text window, and
                    click GET DATA.

Ensure that your data is configured correctly before confirming the
                    import:


Under Database, specify
                                documentation. Alternatively, select another
                            database.
Under Table Name, specify
                                city_chicago_staff. The system typically assigns a
                            numerical suffix that you can remove.
Under Upon Import, select whether you only want
                            to import the data or create a dataset and a dashboard based on the
                                data.
If you select Create Dataset, you are
                                    taken to the Detail page of the dataset
                                    you have created when the import is completed.
If you select Create Dataset and
                                        Dashboard, you are taken to the newly created
                                    dashboard when the import is completed.

For Column Delimiter, define the delimiter used
                            in the source file. In this case, the column delimiter is Comma,
                            but it can also be Tab, Space, Semicolon,
                                Colon, Pipe, Control A, or Other. Make
                            the necessary adjustments to this field.
Under Locale Setting, you can select one of the
                            common options: United States, United Kingdom,
                                Sweden, Norway, or Other. Selecting
                                Other adds a separate field next to the locale setting where
                            you can specify the supported locale. For more information, see
                                Changing the locale setting of an imported file.
Under Options, select the data clean-up tasks
                            that Data Visualization provides prior to data import. These include
                                File contains headers, Fill missing columns, Skip
                                malformed rows, and Use '\' as escape character. noteData Visualization can detect many items
                                automatically, such as the presence of header rows.
In the Data Table preview, each column of the
                            table appears with its data type and name. Data Visualization detects
                            the data type automatically, but you can change it in this interface
                            prior to import. For example, you may wish to store numerical categories
                            as strings. The data types are Boolean, Integer,
                                Real, String, and Timestamp.
You can change the name of the table column before
                            importing.






Click APPLY CHANGES to ensure that all adjustments you
                    made are saved.

Click CONFIRM IMPORT.
The Confirm File Import modal window appears, where you
                    have to click CONFIRM IMPORT again.



To verify that the data has been imported correctly into your system, check the
                        Connection Explorer interface.


Related informationChanging the locale setting of an imported fileParent topic: Adding data