Creating a CDW data connection in Data VisualizationCloudera Docs
Creating a CDW data connection in Data Visualization
Learn how to connect to data when using Cloudera Data Visualization in Cloudera Data
    Warehouse (CDW) data service. You can connect Data Visualization to a Virtual Warehouse to
    visualize your data. Similar to using a BI client, you can configure and connect to Virtual
    Warehouses from different clusters.

You must connect to your data prior to using the data modeling and visualization functions.
        You make the connection to the Virtual Warehouse when you select your warehouse in the steps
        below. The CDW Warehouse URL has the same compute instance ID as your
        Virtual Warehouse.
note
Only users who have the Manage data connections privilege or administrators can
          create and manage connections in Cloudera Data Visualization. In CDW, these are the
          members of the Admin Groups associated with the CDV instance.

When you create a connection, you automatically have privileges to create and manage
        datasets on this connection, and to build dashboards and visuals in these datasets.

For more information on the Manage data connections privilege, see RBAC
            permissions.
For instructions on how to define privileges for a role, see Setting role
            privileges.
For instructions on how to assign the administrator role to a user, see Promoting
            a user to administrator.

 When you are creating a Hive or Impala data connection within the same cluster, the
        connection is considered secure and trusted, and the connection details can be
        auto-populated with a default authentication user. 


Start Data Visualization from the left navigation panel in CDW.

On the main navigation bar, click DATA.
The DATA interface appears, open on the
            Datasets tab. 



In the side menu bar of DATA, click NEW
            CONNECTION.

noteThe NEW CONNECTION button is only accessible to users
            assigned to roles with Manage data connections privilege and to
            administrators.


The Create New Data Connection modal window appears. 




In Connection type, select CDW Hive or CDW
          Impala.

noteSQLite connection is not supported in CDW and the option is
            disabled in the connection list.


Provide a name for the connection.

Select a CDW Warehouse to connect to.

Data connection within the same clusterData connection outside the cluster The following fields are
              auto-populated: 
Hostname or IP address
Port #
Username


Enter the following information:

Hostname or IP address
Port #
Username
Password




Click the Advanced tab and make the appropriate
          selections.

importantDepending on the type of connection you are creating, there can be
            additional tabs in the Create New Data Connection modal window
            where you have to adjust further settings.


Click TEST.
If the connection is valid, the system returns a Connection Verified
          message.

Click CONNECT.

You can create a data set, and then start creating visuals,
      dashboards, and applications. For more information, see Creating datasets and
        Creating a visual.

Related informationRBAC permissionsSetting role privilegesPromoting a user to administratorCreating datasetsCreating a visualParent topic: Connecting to a data source in Cloudera Data Visualization