Discovering the Connection Explorer interfaceCloudera Docs
Discovering the Connection Explorer interface
Learn how you can navigate to the Connection Explorer
    interface
    and use it to connect to data in Cloudera Data Visualization.

On the main navigation bar, click DATA.

The Data view appears, open on the Datasets tab. The
              Datasets tab lists all existing datasets on the connection.




In the main area, click the Connection Explorer tab.



The Connection Explorer interface appears, where you can explore
            the databases and tables available on the connection and you can also manage all
            functions related to the data on the connection. You can click a connection in left
            navigation that you want to explore and select a database. You can also select a
            specific table from that database, and explore its details.

The Connection Explorer interface contains the following items: 


New Connection is for connecting to any source of data.
New Dataset is for creating datasets, which are necessary for
              developing dashboards and visuals. You can also start a new dataset from a specified
              table.
For SQLite connections, the Add Data option enables you to
              introduce data that enriches your datasets from outside sources.
The Supplemental menu, under the
                (ellipsis) icon, opens new options.
For Impala connections, clicking the Clear result cache
                  option under the supplemental menu reloads  the full table definition.
Import Visual Artifacts option under the supplemental
                  menu enables you to restore or import visual artifacts from a
                  backup
                    *.json file.
Direct
                    Access enables you to access data directly by running SQL queries.
                  You can build datasets from specific SQL queries, as opposed to starting with an
                  existing table.

The databases area of the screen shows all databases that you can access through the
              current connection. In our example, there is one called main (selected).
              Selecting a database shows its tables.
In the list of tables, the # Datasets column lists the number
              of datasets that use the particular table as their initial definition.
New Dataset is for creating a dataset on a specific
              table.



Parent topic: Using the Connection Explorer