Creating a CML data connection to an Impala data warehouseCloudera Docs
Creating a CML data connection to an Impala data warehouse
Learn how to connect natively to data stored in Impala when using Data Visualization in
    Cloudera Machine Learning (CML).

You must connect to your data prior to using the data modeling and visualization functions.
        The following steps show you how to create a new CML data connection to an Impala data
        warehouse.
note
Only users who have the Manage data connections privilege or administrators can
          create and manage connections in Cloudera Data Visualization.
You must be an administrator to be able to set privileges for a user. If you want to log
          in as an administrator, you can use the default admin account: 
username: vizapps_admin
password: vizapps_admin


When you create a connection, you automatically have privileges to create and manage
        datasets on this connection, and to build dashboards and visuals in these datasets.

For more information on the Manage data connections privilege, see RBAC
            permissions.
For instructions on how to define privileges for a role, see Setting role
            privileges.
For instructions on how to assign the administrator role to a user, see Promoting
            a user to administrator.



On the main navigation bar, click DATA.

The DATA interface appears, open on the
              Datasets tab.





In the Data side menu bar, click NEW
            CONNECTION.
noteThe NEW CONNECTION button is only accessible to users
            assigned to roles with Manage data connections privilege and to
            administrators.



The Create New Data Connection modal window appears.




Select the Impala
Connection type from the drop-down list and enter the hostname or
          IP address of the running coordinator.
 You can get the coordinator hostname from the JDBC URL of the Impala DW.

Enter 443 in the Port # field.

Enter your workload username and password as credentials.

Click the Advanced tab and make the selections below:






Locate the Impala Endpoint for the data hub.






Copy it and paste it into the HTTP Path field.

Click TEST to test the connection.

Click CONNECT to create the connection.

You have set up a connection to a running Impala DW.

Related informationRBAC permissionsSetting role privilegesPromoting a user to administratorParent topic: Connecting to a data source in Cloudera Data Visualization