Publishing datasetsCloudera Docs
Publishing datasets


note
For more information on possible permissions, see RBAC permissions.

When a user creates a new dataset, that dataset is private by default. To share, user must
        explicitly grant others access to the new dataset. 
In principal, anyone with Manage roles and users privileges can grant dataset access
        to others. However, we choose to restrict this privilege to a small number of people in the
        organization, typically system administrators. This is because role editing is very powerful
        and role editors have full access to the entire system and can update any role to
        grant any permission to any user.
As a result, most dataset creators do not ordinarily have the Manage roles and users
        permission, and must place a service request so that system administrators add new datasets
        to the desired roles. In large organizations with multiple teams that consist of users with
        different responsibilities (dataset creators, dashboard creators, and dashboard viewers),
        access management becomes a laborious task. 
Our RBAC security approach gives dataset creators an opportunity to 'publish' or share
        their datasets through a set of grants based on roles. They can grant access to specific
        roles though the Grant manage dataset, Grant manage dashboards, and Grant
          view dashboards permissions.
The following workflow is established to ensure that dataset creators can grant access to
        their datasets without having to rely on system administrators.
noteOnly users with Manage roles and users role privileges, typically system
        administrators, can set up the roles and permissions, and define users and user
        groups.
Before a dataset creator, Data Admin, can publish a dataset, they must have appropriate
        RBAC permissions, and the roles have to be assigned correctly to the members of each team.
        To understand how to configure the required permissions, roles, groups, and users, read
          RBAC setup for dataset publishing, which contains the following topics:


Setting the dataset recipient roles


Setting the dataset publisher role


Defining groups for teams and access levels


Assigning groups to roles


Assign users to groups


After making all necessary adjustments to the dataset, a user with a Data Admin role can
        publish the dataset. 
note
This workflow is intended for users with Data Admin role privileges.
This feature is only available after completing RBAC setup for dataset
          publishing.

Follow these steps to publish a dataset to the intended users.


Log in as a user with Data Admin privileges. Here, we log in as user
            John_Marketing.

Navigate to the dataset you plan to publish. In our case, we plan to publish the
            Modified Iris Data dataset.

Click the Permissions option in the left navigation. 

At this stage, the Permissions interface for the Modified
              Iris Data dataset appears. In this example, it contains the default matrix for
            roles and privileges for the three Data Admin roles for All datasets on the
              Arcadia Enterprise connection (Manage dataset, Manage dashboards,
            and View dashboards).
You can publish the dataset through one of the following actions:

OptionDescription
Publish
Makes the dataset publicly visible to the already enabled roles. You can stop
              here.

Edit Permissions
Allows the user to grant additional access permissions on the dataset. This is
              only available to users with Role  permissions. If you choose this option,
              continue to the next step.
            


Click Edit Permissions.




The full Permissions matrix appears.


To grant the available privileges to the Modified Iris Data to the Marketing
          group, click the check boxes for the appropriate grants for the Data Admin, Analyst, and
          Visual Consumer roles defined in the Marketing group.

In this example, we granted all possible privileges. However, it is feasible that you
            may initially select only the Data Admin role, to involve others who have that role in
            testing the dataset and building preliminary dashboards. You can subsequently use this
            interface to grant access to other roles and users, such as Analysts who build more
            sophisticated dashboards, and postpone Visual Consumer access to a later time.


Click Save.

This action makes the dataset available to all specified roles.






Related informationRBAC permissionsRBAC setup for dataset publishingSetting the dataset recipient rolesSetting the dataset publisher roleDefine groups for teams and access levelsAssign groups to rolesAssign users to groups