Handling large messagesCloudera Docs
Handling large messages
Learn more about the options you have when handling large messages with Kafka. 
Kafka can be tuned to handle large messages. This can be done by configuring broker and
      consumer properties relating to maximum message and file sizes. However, before doing so,
      Cloudera recommends that you try and reduce the size of messages first. Review the following
      options that can help you reduce message size. 

The Kafka producer can compress messages. For example, if the original message is a
        text-based format (such as XML), in most cases the compressed message will be sufficiently
        small.
Use the compression.type producer configuration parameters to enable
        compression. gzip, lz4, Snappy, and Zstandard are supported.
If shared storage (such as NAS, HDFS, or S3) is available, consider placing large files on
        the shared storage and using Kafka to send a message with the file location. In many cases,
        this can be much faster than using Kafka to send the large file itself.
Split large messages into 1 KB segments with the producing client, using partition keys to
        ensure that all segments are sent to the same Kafka partition in the correct order. The
        consuming client can then reconstruct the original large message. 

If none the options presented are viable, and you need to send large messages with Kafka, you
      can do so by configuring the following parameters based on your requirements.
Table 1. Broker Configuration Properties

Property
Default Value
Description



message.max.bytes
1000000 (1 MB)
Maximum message size the broker accepts.
              


log.segment.bytes
1073741824 (1 GiB)
Size of a Kafka data file. Must be larger than any single message.


replica.fetch.max.bytes
1048576 (1 MiB)
Maximum message size a broker can replicate. Must be larger than
                message.max.bytes, or a broker can accept messages it cannot
              replicate, potentially resulting in data loss.


Table 2. Consumer Configuration Properties

Property
Default Value
Description



max.partition.fetch.bytes
1048576 (10 MiB)
The maximum amount of data per-partition the server will return.


fetch.max.bytes
52428800 (50 MiB)
The maximum amount of data the server should return for a fetch request.


noteThe consumer is able to consume a message batch that is larger than the default value of
      the max.partition.fetch.bytes or fetch.max.bytes property.
      However, the batch will be sent alone, which can cause performance degradation.

