Fixed issuesCloudera Docs
Fixed issues
This section lists the issues that have been fixed since the previous
  version.


CDPDSS-81: Data Catalog Issue
Problem:If an error occurs while fetching results, an error message appears briefly
      and disappears. Once the message disappears, the results pane is stuck in the Loading
      state.
CDPDSS-81: Data Catalog Issue
Problem: Despite having no privileges to add, modify, or delete classifications,
      users are able to edit the tag flow on the Asset Details page. However, users will not be able
      to save the changes. 
CDPDSS-81: Data Catalog Issue
Problem: On the Asset Details page, the Audit tab fails to
      load if the logged in user does not have Audit read privilege.
CDPDSS-363: The 403 error message seen in Data Catalog > Table / Audit tab
Problem: Error messaging needs to be improved for users accessing Table and Audit
      tab without sufficient Ranger role.
CDPDSS-437: Unauthorized message for tag management flow does not have column name
Problem: Unauthorized column names and comma visible for tag management flow.
CDPDSS-444: Duplicate tag based policy on Asset Details Policy tab
Problem: When a specific tag is present both on the table as well as on any column
      of the same table, and a couple of requests to Ranger with the same tag and it displays the
      policy twice on list.
CDPDSS-527: Data Catalog specific user roles not supported.
Problem: The following Data Catalog user roles are not supported:

DataCatalogCspRuleManager

DataCatalogCspRuleViewer


Adding or removing these roles in the User Management will not have
      any impact on Data Catalog user access.
CDPDSS-81: Data Catalog Issue
Problem: When you navigate to the Data Catalog page from the Environments page or
      Data Lakes page, the context is not retained and the Data Catalog page loads with the last
      used context. 
Workaround: You must change the context manually by selecting the right data lake.
     
CDPDSS-302: Profiler Manager server requires a manual restart after installation for DP
      Tags to reflect in Atlas
Problem: Once the profiler is launched, run the sensitivity profiler, the profiler
      recognises the sensitive tags but fails to push them to Atlas. 
Workaround: You must restart the profiler manager. Note that restarting the profiler
      manager is a one-time task.
CDPDSS-360: Sensitive and Hive Column Profilers do not support managed Hive tables.
Problem: Profilers cannot access the storage file of the managed table.
CDPDSS-517: Dataset View: Asset list displays loading icon if user is not authorized on
      Environment on which the dataset is created.
Problem: The dataset view page breaks if user does not have access to the
      Environment on which the dataset is created.
CDPDSS-570: The Filter type list should be refreshed based on the data lake selection.
Problem: Selecting the filter type from the drop-down does not display the supported
      entity type and also in the radio button list.
CDPDSS-547: Data lake name missing on the Asset Details page. 
Problem:The data lake name was not visible on the Asset Details page .
CDPDSS-594: Database filter and create dataset button gets hidden 
Problem:When you clear the query used the clear button, the databaser filter gets
      hidden and create dataset button on the search page gets disabled.
CDPDSS-636: User able to view assets of a dataset which is available in an inaccessible
      data lake.
Problem: Users are able to view the assets in a data lake for which they have no
      permission or access.
CDPDSS-672: On the Asset-Details page, when you make changes and save them, the Scheme page
      is refreshed, the Schema tab is disabled, and Overview tab becomes operational.
Problem:When you perform some operations on the Asset Details page and save the
      changes, the Schema tab gets inactive.



CDPDSS-727: CSP Custom Rule Validation is getting stuck in "Validation Running" status
Problem: The rule gets stuck in the Validation Running status.
Workaround: Keep sensitivity profiler enabled when running CSP rule validation.


CDPDSS-955: Data Catalog uses wrong attribute to read createTime of entities and
     misinterprets lastAccessTime attribute.
Problem: The Data Catalog does not match the Created On date
     with Atlas.


CDPDSS-949: Asset registration pertaining to GLUE integration is not possible.
Problem: Asset registration failing with GLUE integration.


CDPDSS-921: Table created few days ago and configured recently is getting backlisted.
Problem:When an asset created date is older than the filter applied for
     black-listing, the asset still gets blacklisted (not picked during the profiler run). 


CDPDSS-1007: On-Demand Profiler remains in "in-progress" state if the profiler job
     fails.
Problem: The On-Demand Profiler remains in the "in-progress" state if the profiler
     job fails due to some exception (For example: Permission denied exception).
CDPDSS-144: Filter Results Count Mismatch
Problem: When you search and filter the results using Created Before, the
     count displayed in the filters panel is incorrect. But, the number of search results is
     accurate. 
CDPDSS-144: Search icon within dataset does not work
Problem: When you try to search for an asset within a dataset and click the search
     icon, it does not yield any results.
Workaround: Press enter to view the search results after entering a string in the
     search box.
CDPDSS-143: Edit button appears after creating a new dataset
Problem:After creating a new dataset, when you visit the dataset, the Edit
     button appears instead of Add Assets.
Workaround:Refresh your browser and reopen the dataset. You will be able to see the
      Add Assets button. 
CDPDSS-81: When you select a table tag, owner filters along with the counts disappear 
Problem: When you select a table tag, owner filters along with the counts disappear. 
Workaround: Make sure you select table tags before selecting the owner filters. 
CDPDSS-789: Adding system tag 'dp' prevents further editing of tags on the assets
Problem:
Adding system tag 'dp' prevents further editing of tags on the assets
Workaround: Choose not to add the tag 'dp' on any of the assets.
CDPDSS-795: Search bar in schema tab goes empty, but previous results are shown
Problem: Search results displays previous results.
Workaround: Refresh the page.
CDPDSS-797: Schema search tab displays all results for not existing search string
Problem: Search by terms which have no hits and returns all assets.
CDPDSS-1055: Multiple tagging across different types throws 504 Gateway Timeout error
Problem:504 Bad Gateway error is displayed.
CDPDSS-1075: When one specific asset is tagged to multiple tags from the search page, an
     incomplete alert is displayed
Problem:Asset name display is inconsistent. Only the first tag is displayed,
     remaining tag messages do not display the asset name.
CDPDSS-1084: Confusing terminologies.
Problem: Different usage terminologies. Not consistent.
CDPDSS-1373: "Unauthorised" message is displayed by middleware on the Data Catalog UI for
     every API failing 401
Problem:Data Catalog UI shows a pop-up at the bottom with message: "unauthorised
     request" and no context.
CDPDSS-1375: Search enhancements by TERM
Problem: In DataCatalog, if the term is included in the asset search query, the count
     of the assets next to the Data Lakes displays NA. It is because, Atlas search with
     Glossary term is returns approximate count as -1. 
CDPDSS-1410: While navigating to another node from the Lineage tags filter, the tool-tip is
     retained.
Problem: From the lineage tags filter, the tool-tip is retained.
CDPDSS-1414: The "Cancel" button should exit the "Classifications" pane.
Problem:  The "Cancel" button does not go away from the the "Classification"
     pane.
CDPDSS-1415: The Attribute name field in the "add classification" gets truncated when its
     very long and it cannot be read completely.
Problem: The attribute name field cannot be read fully.
CDPDSS-1416: Intermittent: Clicking add classifications reloads the lineage.
Problem: Clicking "add classifications" reloads the lineage but takes a very long
     before completely loading it.


CDPDSS-1474: [Glossary Terms] Difference in the Slider panel used in Asset Details and
     Search pages.
Problem:Indifferent display of slider panels in Asset Details and search pages. 


CDPDSS-1475: Glossary Term | Allow selection on clicking any part of the row.
Problem: While associating a term to column or entity, the user has to click on the
      + icon for selection and not just tap on any object within the
     row.


CDPDSS-1484: Atlas and Ranger services UI link for CDP Private Cloud Base clusters is
     broken.
Problem: The managerUri attribute in Classic Cluster does not contain the Knox
     gateway URL. 


CDPDSS-1498: For AWS Glue assets, users cannot add terms.
Problem: An error is displayed when Glue asset user tries to add terms. 


CDPDSS-1501: On applying the term name in the Glossary filter on the search page, the count
     for data lakes is rendered as NA
Problem: The result count for data lakes displays are NA but the result list loads
     correctly.


CDPDSS-1664: Inherited attributes are not getting displayed for tags in the Schema tab
     slider for specific user cases.
Problem: Missing attributes in the Schema tab slider search
     bar.
CDPDSS-1179: Data Catalog search via Atlas’s /v2/search/basic API doesn’t retrieve results
     when the search text mentioned in the entity filter criteria (like searching by DB / table
     name) has special characters (like + - & | ! ( ) { } [ ] ^ ” ~ * ? :)
Workaround: No known workaround via Data Catalog.
CDPDSS-1346: Asset Details view of HiveTable not displaying all columns
Workaround: N/A


CDPDSS-1276: Error is thrown when advanced configuration values are changed to 0 or left
     blank
Problem:Error is thrown when advanced configuration values are changed to 0 or left
     blank and saved


CDPDSS-1506: For specific databases, the terms associated to them are not getting
     deleted
Workaround: N/A


CDPDSS-1595: Data Catalog Profilers are not functioning as expected for Ranger
      Authorization Service (RAZ) enabled Data Lakes 
Problem: When you are using the RAZ enabled clusters, you can launch the Data
      Catalog profilers but the profilers do not function as expected. 
Workaround: To enable RAZ with Azure, you must update the existing Ranger policy and
      also add a couple of new Ranger policies:
Existing Policy: Default: Hive warehouse locations
         Add dpprofiler user and assign Read + List
         permission.

Later, add the following policies: 
Policy Name: Profiler locations (Anything that Ranger can
     accept)

Depending on your storage location, note the following and set them accordingly:
If you have a sample location like:
abfs://<Storage account>@<Storage account container>.dfs.core.windows.net/<sub_directory>/dpprofiler 
Storage account:<Storage account>
Storage account container : <Storage account Container>
Relative path: /*/dpprofiler
Select All permissions to allow conditions to take effect.

Policy Name :Profiler Ranger Audit Logs (Anything that Ranger
    can accept)Depending on your Storage location, note the following and set them
     accordingly:If you have a sample location like:
     abfs://<Storage account>@<Storage account container>.dfs.core.windows.net/<sub_directory>/ranger/audit
Storage account:<Storage account>
Storage account container : <Storage account Container>
Relative path: /*/ranger/auditSelect Read + List permissions for allow
     conditions.Restart the Profiler Manager service from DataHub Cloudera Manager
     instance.


CDPDSS-1748: Release specific features call fails with 404 error on the search page
Problem:Release specific features call is failing with 404 error for data lakes with
     no profiler cluster.


CDPDSS-1774: In the edit dataset page, on selecting all the assets and deselecting a few
     does not work
Problem:In the edit dataset page, on selecting all the assets and deselecting a few
     of the assets, deselects them in the UI but on hitting the 'delete' (trash icon), all the
     assets (selected and unselected ones) are deleted.


CDPDSS-1801: Options drop-down for a dataset stays open even though drop-down is opened for
     another dataset
Problem:The drop-down for all the datasets stay open.


CDPDSS-1807: Overlapping b/w icon and inline text in text boxes
Problem:This overlapping of icons and inline text is removed from all the pages.


CDPDSS-1808: UI Issues with new 'add asset' modal to add assets to dataset N/A
Problem:Directly clicking on 'search' field of 'Table Tag' shows no results
     found.

Typing "_" in the search field erases the entire search string


'Clear' text button is not working for Table tags , however it works for column tags

CDPDSS-1897: Show process nodes option is displayed for entity types which do not have
     process nodes
Problem:The toggle option to show the "process nodes" is present even for entity
     types which do not have process nodes. 
Workaround: N/A
CDPDSS-1954: User cannot delete profilers when no entities are displayed in search
     result
Problem: The "Action" button containing the option to delete profilers is also
     removed when the search results yeild no entity type.
CDPDSS-1988: Asset names are not clickable for registered assets in Glue Data Lake
Problem:Once the asset is registered observe that the 'asset name' is in blue but not
     clickable.
CDPDSS-2125: Unable to create profiler cluster for Cloudera Runtime version 7.2.11 and
     below

CDPDSS-2130: Unregistered Glue tables consume more time to load Asset Details page.

CDPDSS-2045: Duplicate API calls in Profiler job listing screen

CDPDSS-2032: Profiler Manager Service call is failing for Classic Clusters

CDPDSS-2120: Test run on CSP tag creation fails with 404 error

CDPDSS-2140: System tags status is marked as 'suspended' on a medium duty cluster with
     Profiler Management Services on SDX
Problem: The system tags are in a suspended state instead of default state which is
     'deployed'.
CDPDSS-2141: Delete profiler option should be available in Data Catalog Ui for all the
     states
Problem: This functionality is present on CloudBreak UI and hence can be made
     available from Data Catalg App as well.


