Known issuesCloudera Docs
Known issues
Learn about the known issues in Data Catalog, the impact or changes to the
  functionality, and the workaround.
Unsupported Features
Known Issues


CDPDSS-1953: Location field does not load absolute path for entities in contents tab
Problem:After navigating to the Azure Blob which is created within the Azure
      directory and later clicking the "Content" tab, the path for Azure blob is displayed as "/"
      instead of the path that mentions: containers/directory/Blob.
CDPDSS-1956: Issue with count on search page as AWS S3 V2 Object
Problem: The count against the Data Lake displays only the count of AWS S3 V2 Object
      entity type. 
CDPDSS-1965: Cannot traverse to Asset Details page of "AWS S3 V2 Directory" by clicking on
      its node
Problem: The node for "AWS S3 V2 Directory" is not clickable 
CDPDSS-31173: Atlas API on saving the classifications in Data Catalog is failing while
      using Cloudera Runtime version 7.2.12
Problem:When the suggested classification by Custom Sensitivity Profiler is saved,
      Atlas API throws an error response and it is not saved in Data Catalog. This behavior is
      specifically observed in Cloudera Runtime version 7.2.12.
Workaround: If you are using 7.2.12 version,
       from Cloudera Manager > Atlas >
       Configuration > search for 'application.prop' > enter
      the value as "atlas.tasks.enabled=false". Restart Atlas. Later, log into Data
      Catalog to use the classification feature.
CDPDSS-2047: Issue with Database connectivity while using Azure to launch Profilers in HA
      mode
Problem: Launching Profilers HA either as part of SDX or DataHub causes DB
      connectivity issue.
CDPDSS-2127: On profiler cluster creation step 'external database in creation' the message
      on search page is not displayed
Problem: The message on Data Catalog search page is not displayed in 'blue' section
      saying "profilers cluster is getting created" . 
CDPDSS-2138: ODP fails on an asset imported from Glue to CDP on a medium duty cluster 
Problem: The profiler run fails on the table.
CDPDSS-2142: Livy job in Profiler run has failed but profiling status of assets is shown as
      started
Problem: The livy job fails but each assets shows profiling status as started.
CDPD-32000: Atlas intermittently does not send the classification information to Data
      Catalog
Problem: On loading of search page filters with 'entity type' filter applied to
      'Hive', intermittently the tags/classifications are not loaded in Data Catalog App. Due to
      this, Data Catalog does not load the filters for 'entity tag' and column tag.
CDPDSS-2145: Applying column tag filter and typing the same search result in search field
      gives ‘no results’ found
Problem: On searching the asset which is in the results for a column tag filter, the
      search results are shown as 'No results found'.
CDPDSS-: Issues noticed on data-catalog while performing scale testing
Problem:

Search page consistently throws 504 gateway time-out error, however on applying global
        search field or search filters, results are loaded.
Hive Column profiler goes to “undetermined” state for both ODP or scheduled jobs . To fix
        this, Profiler must be stopped and restarted. Happens due to Profiler not completing the
        read events from eventstore in AWS S3 within the time-out
         limit.(intermittent)
On Asset Details page, when ODP is triggered , on successful completion of jobs and
        refresh of page, the ODP widget is not displayed and user needs to refresh a couple of times
        to load it on UI(reproducible) . This ODP trigger job is running in parallel to running
        scheduled jobs.
Assets cannot be added to dataset as the api fails with gateway timeout
         (intermittent)

Workaround: For the first and fourth issues listed, the following configuration
      change done on Cloudera Manager for Atlas:
atlas.graph.index.search.types.max-query-str-length=1536
Heap size = 4 GB
For the third issue listed, you must refresh the Asset Details page for about three to four
      times.



