Deploying a ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
Deploying a ReadyFlow
Learn how to use the Deployment wizard to deploy a ReadyFlow
        using the information you collected using the prerequisites check list. 

The CDF Catalog is where you manage the flow definition lifecycle, from
                initial import, to versioning, to deploying a flow definition. 


In DataFlow, from the left navigation pane, click
            Catalog.
Flow definitions available for you to deploy are displayed, one definition per
            row.

Launch the Deployment wizard.


Click the row to display the flow definition details and versions.


Click a row representing a flow definition version to display flow definition
                version details and the Deploy button.


Click Deploy to launch the
                  Deployment wizard.








Select the environment to which you want to deploy this version of your
                        flow definition, and click Continue.

note Only environments which have been enabled for DataFlow, are in a
                            healthy state, and to which you have access display in the dropdown.
                            Once you have selected the target environment, you cannot change it
                            later in the flow deployment process without starting over.


In the Overview, give your flow deployment a unique
                        name.

You can use this name to distinguish between different versions of a flow
                            definition, flow definitions deployed to different environments, and
                            similar. 
note Flow Deployment names need to be unique. The
                                Deployment wizard indicates whether a name is
                            valid by displaying a green check below the Deployment
                                Name text box.


In NiFi Configuration:


Select a NiFi Runtime Version for your flow deployment. Cloudera
                                recommends that you always use the latest available version, if
                                possible.


Autostart Behavior is on by default,
                                allowing your flow to start automatically after successful
                                deployment. You can clear selection if you do not want the automatic
                                start.



In Parameters, specify parameter values like connection
            strings, usernames and similar, and upload files like truststores, and similar.

noteFor parameters specific to a ReadyFlow, see
                                Required parameters in the documentation of individual
                            ReadyFlows.


Specify your Sizing & Scaling configurations.


NiFi node sizing
You can adjust the size of your cluster from Extra Small to Large
Number of NiFi nodes


You can set whether you want to automatically scale your cluster depending
                                            on resource demands. When you enable autoscaling, the
                                            minimum NiFi nodes are used for initial size and the
                                            workload scales up or down depending on resource
                                            demands.
You can set the number of nodes from 1 to 32.

noteFlow deployments scale horizontally by adding or removing more NiFi nodes to
                    a deployment. Deployments do not scale vertically and the node size cannot be
                    changed for running deployments.




In Key Performance Indicators, you can set up your
                        metrics system with specific KPIs to track the performance of a deployed
                        flow. You can also define when and how to receive alerts about the KPI
                        metrics tracking.

tipYou can reorder the KPIs by dragging them up or down the
                            list. The order you configure here will be reflected in the detailed
                            monitoring view of the resulting deployment.
See Working with KPIs for more information about the KPIs
                            available and how you can monitor them.


Review the summary of the information you provided
                        in the Deployment wizard and make any necessary edits
                        by clicking Previous. When you are finished, complete
                        your flow deployment by clicking Deploy.


Once you click Deploy, you are being redirected to the Alerts
                tab in the detail view for the deployment where you can track its progress. 


