Importing Glossary terms in bulkCloudera Docs
Importing Glossary terms in bulk
You can import a comma-separated list of Glossary terms into Atlas. 
Create the Glossary or Glossaries before you begin the import. Then,
      download a template CSV file to organize your term list so Atlas can
      consume it.

noteThe mechanism to import Glossary terms can be used to import new
        terms only. If you want to update existing terms, use the Atlas UI or
        API.

To import terms:
Log into Atlas.
From the user menu, chose Bulk Import > Glossary > Download Import
          template to download a template for the bulk import file.
Fill in the template with the Glossary term details. Consider the
          following guidelines for the import file:

Each line in the file produces a term in a pre-defined
                Glossary.

Only the GlossaryName and TermName are required.
Only new terms can be added; if your list contains an existing
              term, it will fail to import any terms.
If you provide other metadata for a term, be sure to include the
              correct separators so the value is applied to the correct
              relationship type.

When you have a term list to import, from the user menu, chose Bulk Import > Glossary > Import Glossary Term and select the file to upload.If a row in the input file does not import
          successfully, you will see an error in the UI; additional errors in the same import are
          not shown. Rows that are correct import even if you see an error for a row that does not
          import. If you see an error, fix the error, remove the rows previous to the error row, and
          reimport the file. Note that if you provide a single entry for an array, the new value
          replaces all the values of the array. To see all the errors for a given import, look in
          the Atlas Server log.

Related informationDefining related termsAccessing Atlas logsEnhancements related to bulk glossary terms importAfter you import Glossary terms into Atlas, you can now list the terms linked to the         specific term (Related Terms) in Atlas UI that are provided by the         user using the CSV file. 