Glossaries overviewCloudera Docs
Glossaries overview
Use glossaries to define a common set of search terms that data users
    across your organization use to describe their data.
“Data” can describe a wide variety of content: lists of names or
          text or columns full of numbers. You can use algorithms to describe
          data as having a specific pattern, of being within a range or
          having wide variation, but what’s missing from these descriptions is
          what does the data mean in a given business context and what is it
          used for? Is this column of integers the count of pallets that entered
          a warehouse on a given day or number of visitors for each room in a
          conference center? An Atlas glossary is a way to organize the context
          information that your business uses to make sense of your data beyond
          what can be figured out just by looking at the content. The glossary
          holds the terms you’ve agreed upon across your organization so
          business users can use familiar terms to find what they are looking
          for. 
Apache Atlas glossaries enable you to define a
          hierarchical set of business terms that represents your business
          domain. You can then associate these glossary terms with the metadata
          entities that Atlas manages. 

Glossaries
You can create any number of separate glossaries to group
            terms used in different domains. Define glossaries to correspond to
            how your users think about their data. For example, you might want to
            put terms specific to Sales in one glossary, while your Manufacturing
            terms might go in a separate glossary. Terms from multiple glossaries
            can still be associated with the same data; the same term (“Shipping
            Address City”) can appear in more than one glossary.
Terms
Glossary terms can be thought of as of a flat (but
         searchable) list of business terms organized by glossaries. Unlike
         classifications, terms are not propagated through lineage
         relationships: the context of the term is what’s important, so
         propagation may or may not make sense. 
Categories
Glossary categories enable you to create a
            hierarchy of categories and subcategories within each glossary. You can
            then associate terms with these categories, thereby establishing an
            organizational hierarchy of business terms.


