Uploading tablesCloudera Docs
Uploading tables
You can upload existing tables in CSV, JSON, or XML format to create new tables in the
    database. You can use the uploaded tables as other tables, run queries, and generate reports on
    them like other tables.

Click Upload Table.
Enter the file format details in the Select File Format section.


File type: Select the file type from the drop down list.


Field Delimiter: This appears if you select CSV as the file format. Enter a
              delimiter character such as comma.

notePick a delimiter that is not part of the column data.



Escape Character: This appears if you select CSV as the file format. Enter
              an escape character such as \.


Quote Character: This appears if you select CSV as the file format. Enter a
              quote character.


If the first row is header, click to select Is first row
                header checkbox.


If the file contains endlines, click to select Contains
                endlines checkbox.


Select the source of the table file.


Upload from HDFS: Select this option to upload files from
              HDFS.


Upload from Local: Select this option to upload files from
              the local node.

noteUploading tables from Amazon S3 is not supported in the CDP 1.2 release of
                Cloudera Runtime.



The table details automatically appear as preview. Click
            Preview if the table details do not load automatically. DAS
          updates the name of the table, names of the columns, and the data types of each
          column.
Modify the names of the table and columns as needed.
Click the Advanced tab to specify the following additional
          options:


Select Transactional if you want the table to be a
              transactional table.


Click Add Location if you want to specify a location for the
              table.


Select a file format from Add File Format.


Click Add Row Format to specify details for the rows.


Click Properties to add key-value properties of the table.Click Create.

Parent topic: Manage databases and tables