Bulk Loading Threat Intelligence Sources Using STIX/TAXIICloudera Docs
Bulk Loading Threat
      Intelligence Sources Using STIX/TAXII
Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP) is designed to work with STIX/TAXII threat
      feeds. OpenTAXII is a Python implementation of TAXII services that delivers a rich feature set
      and friendly pythonic API.
TAXII loader is a
            stand-alone Java application that never stops streaming cyber threat intelligence
            information. You can use the shell script
               $METRON_HOME/bin/threatintel_taxii_load.sh to poll a Taxii server
            for STIX documents and ingest them into HBase.
It is common for the Taxii
            server to be an aggregation server such as Soltra Edge.
To set up an opentaxii
            service on CCP, you must deploy an opentaxii role, create an extractor file and a
            connection file, and push the feeds to HBase. In addition to the Enrichment and
            Extractor configs described in the following sections, this loader requires a
            configuration file describing the connection information to the Taxii server. The
            following is an example of a configuration file:

                        {
   "endpoint" : "http://localhost:8282/taxii-discovery-service"
  ,"username" : "guest"
  ,"password" : "guest"
  ,"type" : "DISCOVER"
  ,"collection" : "guest.Abuse_ch"
  ,"table" : "threat_intel"
  ,"columnFamily" : "cf"
  ,"allowedIndicatorTypes" : [ "domainname:FQDN", "address:IPV_4_ADDR" ]
}

                     
where:

endpoint

The URL of the endpoint

type


POLL or DISCOVER depending on the endpoint.

collection

The Taxii collection to ingest

table

The HBase table to import into

columnFamily

The column family to import into

allowedIndicatorTypes

an array of acceptable threat intelligence types (see the "Enrichment Type Name"
                column of the Stix table above for the possibilities).


The parameters for the utility are as follows:


Short Code
Long Code
Is Required?
Description



-h

No
Generate the help screen/set of options


-e
--extractor_config
Yes
JSON Document describing the extractor for this input data
                        source


-c
--taxii_connection_config
Yes
The JSON config file to configure the connection


-p
--time_between_polls
No
The time between polling the Taxii server in milliseconds. (default: 1
                        hour)


-b
--begin_time
No
Start time to poll the Taxii server (all data from that point will be
                        gathered in the first pull). The format for the date is yyyy-MM-dd
                        HH:mm:ss


-l
--log4j
No
The Log4j Properties to load


-n
--enrichment_config
No
The JSON document describing the enrichments to configure. Unlike other
                        loaders, this is run first if specified.



Fetch Hail a TAXII FeedsAfter you install your TAXII provider, you must fetch the latest Hail a TAXII feeds       into the TAXII server. Hail a TAXII.com is a repository of Open Source Cyber Threat       intelligence feeds in STIX format.Configure TAXII Extractor Configuration FileAfter you fetch the latest Hail a TAXII feeds to the TAXII server, you must create an       extractor configuration file to bulk load the threat intelligence enrichment store into       HBase.Configure TAXII Connection Configuration FileIn addition to the Extractor configuration file, this TAXII loader requires a       configuration file describing the connection information to the TAXII server.Push Hail a TAXII Feeds to HBaseAfter you create the extractor configuration and connection configuration files, you       can push the Hail a TAXII feeds from the TAXII server into HBase.Verify Threat Intelligence Feeds in HBaseAfter you push the Hail a TAXII feeds to HBASE, you should check HBase for the threat       intelligence information.Parent topic: Enriching with Threat Intelligence Information