Identifying Performance TrendsCloudera Docs
Identifying Performance Trends
This task identifies performance trends over a selected time range.
Describes how to use Workload Manager or Workload XM to identify performance
                trends.You can identify trends as well as baselines by analyzing your engine’s or
                cluster’s performance trends from the Trends chart widget and
                the Trend tab. Where:
The Trends time-series chart widget displays more detailed metrics about the
                        processed jobs and queries and enables you to view historical trends for
                        analysis when you select a predefined or custom time period from the
                            Range filter list.
The Trends tab displays the job or query's instances executed during the
                        selected time range. Depending on the engine, the Trends page displays a
                        job's historical trend from Duration, Data Input, and Data Output histogram
                        charts or lists the runs of the query to show how its performance changes
                        overtime.


In a supported browser, log in to the Workload Manager or Workload XM web UI.
                

In the Clusters page, select the cluster required for analysis. 

From the Trend chart widget, select the tab of each
                    engine that has processed jobs or queries. Notice if there are any failed or
                    slow jobs or queries.

For any Failed Jobs or Queries and for any slow jobs or queries, labeled Job
                    Duration or Query Active Time, select the number under the aforementioned
                    labels. 
The following image shows the Total Queries,
                        Failed Queries, and Query Active
                        Time labels from a Workload View's Trend chart widget:



From either the Job or Queries page that opens, record those jobs or queries
                    that are failing and their health issue. 

For more insights, click a job or query and then select the
                        Trend tab. 

Record your findings.


Parent topic: Step 3 Capture Your Existing Baselines