Step 3 Capture Your Existing BaselinesCloudera Docs
Step 3 Capture Your Existing Baselines
Describes how to create baselines that enable you to address performance problems and
    compare the performance of your workloads, jobs, and queries before and after
    migration.
Workload Manager and Workload XM baseline metrics measure the current performance of a job
            against the average performance of previous runs. They use performance data from 30 of
            the most recent runs of a job and require a minimum of three runs. The baseline
            comparisons start with the fourth run of a job.
noteWhen a baseline is first created there will be comparison differences
      until more data is established.
Cloudera highly recommends that before you migrate, you establish and capture your workloads,
            jobs, and query baselines with Workload Manager or Workload XM. Baselines enable you to
            identify and address performance problems, as well as, enable you to compare the
            performances of your workloads, jobs, and queries before and after migration. 
For more information on how to establish and display baselines and create job comparisons, see
        Related Information.
The following images show some of the baseline metrics that Workload Manager and Workload XM
                provide:
This image shows a few of the performance metrics listed in the Baseline tab:
                        


This image shows the comparison between the baseline performance metrics and the
                    current job run: 



To capture a job's baseline performance:
In a supported browser, log in to the Workload Manager or the Workload XM web UI. 
In the Clusters page, select the cluster required for analysis. 
From the Usage Analysis chart widget, select the required engine,
     such as Spark. 
From the Slow Jobs chart widget, click on a job and record its
                    baseline and any prescriptive improvements that can be made. 
If a baseline is not displaying, click Compare with Previous Run. 
Capture the Job Comparison page and record any health issues. 

You can also compare two different runs of the same job with the Job comparison feature. 
To compare two different runs of the same job: 
In a supported browser, log in to the Workload Manager or the Workload XM web UI. 
In the Clusters page, select the cluster required for analysis. 
In the Trend chart widget, select the tab of an engine whose jobs you
          want to analyze and then click its Total Jobs value.The engine's
            Jobs page opens.
 List and display details of all the runs of a specific job by selecting one of the job runs
                    and then, in the Jobs details page, click the Trends tab. 
To compare two job runs, select the check boxes adjacent to the job runs you require and
     then click Compare. The Job Comparison page opens displaying more
      details about each job.

Before moving to CDP, Cloudera highly recommends capturing those jobs that have a maximum
            impact on your CDH or HDP clusters and establishing their baselines. After migrating to
            CDP, capture those job baselines again with Workload Manager or Workload XM. If you see
            significant deviation between the CDH or HDP and CDP baselines, drill down further in
            Workload Manager or Workload XM to understand the effects of the migration. 
You can also identify trends as well as baselines by analyzing your engine’s or cluster’s
      performance trends from the Trends chart widget and the
        Trend tab. As described in the next topic.

Related informationTroubleshooting with the Job Comparison FeatureIdentifying Performance TrendsThis task identifies performance trends over a selected time range.Parent topic: Accelerate Your Migration to CDP with Workload Manager or Workload XM