Step 2 Create an Optimization PlanCloudera Docs
Step 2 Create an Optimization Plan
Describes how an Optimization Plan can accelerate your migration by defining which
    workloads, jobs, and queries to optimize before and which workloads to optimize after migration. 
Your optimization plan should include a list of workloads or set of workloads and their
   existing status, including any current performance issues and health check violations, and the
   suggested improvement recommendations by Workload Manager or Workload XM. From your list of
   insights, decide which workloads, jobs, and queries require optimization before migration and
   which workloads, jobs, and queries require optimization after migration. 
Your optimization plan should also consider: 
The type and severity of the issue 
The CDP form factor 
Your data infrastructure 
The number of clusters in your CDP environment 
Memory sizing considerations 
The before and after features, engines, and services 

For example, during the processing of a SQL statement, the performance health tests discovered
      aggregate issues and missing table statistics.


When a performance issue lists Aggregate Spilled Partitions as the cause
      it denotes memory issues. To ensure that all your SQL queries have sufficient memory when
      processing you should consider increasing your cluster’s memory size. For this issue, the
      optimization would be solved as part of your CDP infrastructure and sizing considerations.
      Where you would use this information to research the costs of more memory for your CDP
      clusters as this would ensure enough memory for other such queries. 
For the missing table statistics issue, it would also be more productive to collect the table
      statistic metadata after migration. Therefore, for this issue the optimization should be
      performed after migration. 
Other considerations include: 
Understanding what features and engines are available in CDP. For example, users will
      have the ability to use Hive on TEZ and Hive LLAP in CDP, which are not available in CDH or
      HDP. Therefore, consider optimizing your Hive engine issues after migration.
Your legacy applications and workloads that are at the end of their life cycle or those that
          would require development in order to work in CDP.
Any issue or condition that would result in migrating garbage data. For example, you can
          immediately improve the processing performance of an Impala query by rewriting any poor
          SQL code, as described in the next topic Identifying and Correcting Inefficient
            SQL Code.


Identifying and Correcting Inefficient SQL CodeWorkload Manager and Workload XM dissect inefficient Impala SQL code and provide     prescriptive tuning recommendations. Parent topic: Accelerate Your Migration to CDP with Workload Manager or Workload XM