Identifying Workload Problems and Health IssuesCloudera Docs
Identifying Workload Problems and Health Issues
This task identifies what workloads are running on your CDH and HDP clusters and if
        there are any health issues that exist or were encountered and not addressed. 

Describes how to use Workload Manager or Workload XM to quickly identify resource and
                workload health issues.noteThe health test metrics provided
                    by Workload Manager and Workload XM are dependent on the workload's processing
                    engine.
The following chart widgets quickly enable you to locate what engines that are
                running on your CDH and HDP clusters and what jobs and queries are failing the
                health tests:
The cluster's Usage Analysis chart widget enables you
                        to visually see what engines are running on the cluster, how many jobs or
                        queries are processed by the engine, and how many jobs or queries have
                        failed and missed their SLA.
The Suboptimal chart widget enables you to visually
                        see at a glance what issues are currently impacting your jobs or queries and
                        how they are executing on your cluster. This chart uses the Workload
                            Manager and Workload XM health tests and shows the distribution of jobs
                            and queries that failed. The health tests are performed when a job or
                            query has finished and provide insight into the performance of  the job
                            or query, such as how much data was processed and how long it took to
                            process. The Health Check list, on the engine’s Jobs or Queries
                            page, categorizes the health tests. For example, for an Impala engine,
                            the Aggregation Spilled Partitions,
                                HashJoin Spilled Partitions, and
                                Slow Client health checks, test for resource
                            health issues. For Hive, MapReduce, Oozie, and Spark engines, the
                                Insufficient Partitioning and Many
                                Materialized Columns health checks, test for query and
                            schema issues, such as, is the code using SELECT * on millions of
                            columns.These categories further enable you to understand the
                            type of problem: 
Metadata/Statistics 
Optimal Configuration 
Performance 
Query/Schema Design 
Skew 
Baseline 


For more information about each health check, see Related
                    Information. 


In a supported browser, log in to the Workload Manager or the Workload XM web
                    UI.

In the Clusters page, select the cluster required for analysis. 

From the Usage Analysis chart widget, record the engines
                    running workloads and note any issues.

From the Navigation panel or the Usage Analysis chart
                    widget, click an engine that requires more analysis.

Scroll down to the engine's Suboptimal widget chart, as
                    shown in the following example image. Record the health tests that contain a
                    bar, which denote health tests that were violated. 






For more insights, click on any bar that displays a failed health check.

The Jobs or Queries page opens.


Click a job or query with a Health Issue and then select
                    the Health Checks tab. 

The Health Checks page is divided into three sections that display
                        information about the job or query. Where: 


The left section lists the health checks that were performed. 
The middle section displays the stages of the job or query where a
                                health check was performed. By default, all healthy stages are
                                hidden and are revealed when a stage is selected. 
The right section lists detailed information about a stage. Failed
                                stages list the failed health check, the diagnosis, and
                                recommendations. 




Either record the diagnosis and prescriptive recommendation or use the
                    recommendation to fix the issue.


Related informationHive, MapReduce, Oozie, and Spark Health ChecksImpala Health ChecksParent topic: Step 1 Identify Current and Potential Issues