Identifying Resource ContentionCloudera Docs
Identifying Resource Contention
This task identifies the resource usage and consumption of your
        workloads.

Describes how to use Workload Manager or Workload XM to identify workload resource
                consumption and contention problems by observing the types of resources and the
                amount of memory that is consumed.
Workload Manager and Workload XM provide the following chart widgets that help you
                analyze and identify resource consumption and contention problems:
The Resource Consumption By Services chart widget,
                        which is displayed in the cluster Summary page. It shows the CPU and memory
                        consumption for each service across the time range you selected. Hover your
                        mouse over the time line, to display the amount of CPU or memory, as a
                        percentage, that is consumed by each of the cluster's services. 
The Resource Consumption By Nodes chart widget, which
                        is displayed in the cluster Summary page. It shows the CPU and memory
                        consumption for each node in the cluster. Hover your mouse over the time
                        line, to display the amount of CPU or memory, as a percentage, that is
                        consumed by each node and its services. 
The Memory Utilization chart widget, which is
                        displayed in either the Impala engine or Workloads (Workload View) page. It
                        shows the aggregated maximum amount of memory that is used by the queries on
                        any node performing the processing. It helps you identify inefficient
                        queries that are consuming the most amount of memory during processing and
                        if you need to allocate more memory to continue running your queries. 
The Resource Consumption chart widget, which is
                        displayed in either the Impala engine or Workloads (Workload View) page. It
                        shows the concurrent use of CPU and memory consumption for a workload across
                        the time line you selected. 

importantThis task assumes that you have created
                workload views. For more information on how to create a Workload View, see
                    Related Information.


In a supported browser, log in to the Workload Manager or the Workload XM web
                    UI. 

In the Clusters page, select the cluster required for analysis. 

From the Navigation panel, select Workloads. 

In the Workloads page, select the required Workload. 

Locate the Resource Consumption chart widget and
                    identify any resource contentions by comparing the CPU Core Hours with Memory
                    Usage. 

Record any above average CPU and memory usage. 
For example, the following Resource Consumption
                    chart widget image shows spikes when CPU and memory usage is high. This could be
                    due to several job events occurring at the same time. The memory usage drops
                    significantly around May 10th, which will need further investigation. 


To rule out any serious problems, Cloudera recommends monitoring your memory
                        and CPU usage from one of the aforementioned resource chart widgets. As part
                        of your migration planning, Cloudera recommends eliminating any resource
                        contention before you migrate. Otherwise, these problems will resurface in
                        CDP


Related informationClassifying Workloads for Analysis with Workload ViewsParent topic: Step 1 Identify Current and Potential Issues