Accelerate Your Migration to CDP with Workload Manager or Workload XMCloudera Docs
Accelerate Your Migration to CDP with Workload Manager or Workload XM
Overview of how Workload Manager and Workload XM can accelerate your migration from
  legacy CDH and HDP to CDP by reducing migration risks.  
As part of your migration best practices, it is important to perform an in-depth analysis of
   your workloads before migrating to CDP. Workload Manager and Workload XM enable you to
   interactively understand your existing workloads, clusters, and resources. The wide range of
   metrics (collected by Telemetry Publisher or Databus Producer) and health tests help you identify
   and troubleshoot issues and the prescriptive guidance and recommendations help you quickly
   address and optimize those problems before or after migration. Finally, the performance baseline
   feature and historical analysis helps you identify and address performance problems and compare a
   workload’s performance before and after your migration.
noteWhether you are using Workload Manager or Workload XM the steps and
   procedures are the same, as the name of the product depends on your environment. 
The following steps describe the tasks that you perform to plan and accelerate your migration
   to CDP. These steps provide you with an in-depth knowledge to make migration decisions by
   enabling you to identify which workloads are good candidates for cloud migration, plan which
   workloads, queries, and jobs require optimization and whether optimization is performed before or
   after migration, and identify and address performance problems by establishing baselines from
   health issues that will also enable a performance comparison of your workloads from before and
   after your migration: 

Identify current and potential issues and the priority in which your workloads are migrated
    from your legacy platform to a CDP form factor. This includes: 
Monitoring and identifying issues in your existing clusters and recording their historical
      analysis. 
Analyzing your existing resource consumption and resource contentions. 
Identifying rogue users and resource hungry workloads.

Plan which workloads, jobs, and queries require optimization and whether optimization is
    performed before or after migration.
Enable a before and after migration workload performance comparison by capturing performance
    baselines.





Step 1 Identify Current and Potential IssuesDescribes the tasks that help you discover which workloads to migrate and which   workloads and users are currently containing issues and impacting costs, such as those resources   that are consuming large amounts of CPU and memory.Step 2 Create an Optimization PlanDescribes how an Optimization Plan can accelerate your migration by defining which     workloads, jobs, and queries to optimize before and which workloads to optimize after migration. Step 3 Capture Your Existing BaselinesDescribes how to create baselines that enable you to address performance problems and     compare the performance of your workloads, jobs, and queries before and after     migration.