Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Public CloudCloudera Docs
Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Public Cloud
Replication Manager is a service to copy and migrate data from CDH 5.13+ and above
        clusters (HDFS, Hive, and HBase data) and CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.4 and above clusters
        (HDFS, Hive external tables, and HBase data) to CDP Public Cloud clusters. The supported
        Public Cloud services include Amazon S3 or Microsoft Azure ADLS Gen2 (ABFS). Replication
        Manager from HDP clusters to CDP Public Cloud Azure is a beta feature and is not available
        for general use.
About Replication ManagerReplication Manager is a service in CDP Public Cloud. You can create replication         policies in Replication Manager to copy and migrate data from CDH (version 5.13 and higher)         clusters (HDFS, Hive, and HBase data) and CDP Private Cloud Base (version 7.1.4 and higher)         clusters (HDFS, Hive external tables, and HBase data) to CDP Public Cloud clusters. You can         also replicate HDFS data from cloud storage to classic clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud         Base clusters), and Hive external tables to Data Hubs. The supported Public Cloud services         include Amazon S3 and Microsoft Azure ADLS Gen2 (ABFS). Replicating Hive managed tables         using Replication Manager from HDP clusters to CDP Public Cloud is a beta feature and is not         available for general use.Access Replication Manager service in CDP Public CloudYou can access the Replication Manager service by logging into Cloudera Data         Platform.How replication policies workIn CDP Public Cloud       Replication Manager, you create replication policies to establish the rules you want applied       to your replication jobs. The policy rules you set can include which cluster is the source and       which is the destination, what data is replicated, what day and time the replication job       occurs, the frequency of job runs, and bandwidth restrictions.Using HDFS replication policiesYou can use the HDFS replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager to     replicate HDFS data. The HDFS replication policies can replicate HDFS data and metadata from     classic clusters (CDH, CDP Private Cloud Base, and HDP) to CDP Public Cloud storage buckets such     as S3 and ABFS, and from cloud storage to classic clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base     clusters). To use an on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base cluster) in the     replication policy, you must register it as a classic cluster in the Management Console. To use     the cloud storage for data replication, you must register the cloud credentials in Replication     Manager so that the Replication Manager service can access the cloud storage. You must also     verify cluster access and configure minimum ports for replication before you create HDFS     replication policies.Using Hive replication policiesTo create a Hive replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager, you must         configure the required Ranger policy in Ranger, register the on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP         Private Cloud Base) as a classic cluster in Management Console, register cloud account         credentials in the Replication Manager service, verify cluster access, and configure minimum         ports for replication. The replication load happens on the source on-premises cluster. You         can replicate data on-premises to the cloud with a single cluster if the Metastore is         running on the cloud.Using HBase replication policiesTo create an HBase replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager, you         must register the on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base) as a classic cluster         in Management Console, register cloud account credentials in the Replication Manager         service, verify cluster access, and configure minimum ports for replication.Troubleshooting replication policies in CDP Public CloudThe troubleshooting scenarios in this topic help you to troubleshoot issues in the         Replication Manager service in CDP Public Cloud.AppendixBefore you create replication policies, you must register the Amazon S3 or Azure cloud   credentials to use as cloud storage in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager, and register the   on-premises clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base) as classic clusters in the Management   Console. You can also configure an SSL/TLS certificate exchange between two Cloudera Manager   instances that manage source and target cluster respectively to replicate data   securely.