Hive replicationCloudera Docs
Hive replication
Replication Manager allows you to replicate Hive databases from a source cluster to a
  target location on a destination cluster. The first time you run a job with data that has not been
  previously replicated, the Replication Manager creates a new folder or database and bootstraps the
  data. To replicate Hive metadata, Replication Manager performs a full replication. To replicate
  the data stored in Hive tables, Replication Manager uses snapshot diff-based replication to
  perform incremental replication.
During bootstrap operation, all of the data from the source location is copied to the
   destination. This bootstrapping of data can take hours to days, depending on factors such as the
   amount of data being copied and available network bandwidth.
After the bootstrap operation succeeds, an incremental replication is automatically
   performed for data replication using snapshot diff-based replication. The job synchronizes,
   between the source and destination clusters, any events that occurred during the bootstrap
   process. After the data is synchronized, the replicated data is ready for use on the destination.
   Data is in a consistent state only after incremental replication has captured any new changes
   that occurred during bootstrap.
Subsequent replication jobs from the same source location to the same target on the
   destination are incremental, so only the changed data is copied.
If a bootstrap operation is interrupted, such as due to a network failure or an
   unrecoverable error, the Replication Manager automatically retries the job. If a retry succeeds,
   the replication job continues from the point at which it was interrupted. If the automatic
   retries are not successful, you must manually correct the issue before running the policy again.
   When you activate the policy again, the replication job resumes from the point at which it was
   suspended.
Functions such as User Defined Functions (UDF) in Hive are replicated. To enable this, UDFs
   have to be created using a syntax. An example of UDF creation
   syntax:CREATE FUNCTION [db_name.]function_name AS class_name  USING JAR|FILE|ARCHIVE 'file_uri' [, JAR|FILE|ARCHIVE 'file_uri'] ;


ACID tables, external tables, storage handler-based tables (such as HBase), and
    column statistics are currently not replicated.
When creating a schedule for a Hive replication policy, you should set the
    frequency so that changes are replicated often enough to avoid overly large copies.

Snapshot diff-based replication
By default, Replication Manager uses snapshot differences ("diff") to improve
    performance by comparing HDFS snapshots and only replicating the files that are changed in the
    source directory.
While Hive metadata requires a full replication, the data stored in Hive tables
    takes advantage of snapshot diff-based replication. To replicate a database using a Hive
    replication policy, ensure that all the HDFS paths for the tables in that database are either
    snapshottable or under a snapshottable root. For example, if the database that is being
    replicated has external tables, all the external table HDFS data locations should be
    snapshottable too. Failing to do so can cause the Replication Manager to fail to generate a diff
    report. Without a diff report, Replication Manager will not use snapshot diff.
An HDFS directory is referred to as snapshottable if an administrator - having superuser
    privilege or having owner access to the directory - has enabled snapshots for the directory in
    Cloudera Manager.
You must ensure that the following guidelines are met for efficient incremental
    replication:

HDFS snapshots are immutable.tipIn the source
      Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters  > HDFS service > Configuration section, and search for Enable Immutable
      Snapshots.
Snapshot root directory is set to as low in the hierarchy as possible.
Replication Manager user is a super user or the owner of the snapshottable root.
     This is because the user specified in the Run-as-username field in the replication policy must
     have the permission to list the snapshots.
Paths from both source and destination clusters in the replication policy
     are under a snapshottable root or are snapshottable for the replication policy to run using
     snapshot diff.

Replication Manager performs a complete replication when one or more of the following change:
    Delete Policy, Preserve Policy, Target Path, or Exclusion Path.
noteEnsure the source data does not contain an encrypted subdirectory.
    This is because snapshot diff-based replication might fail if an encrypted subdirectory exists
    in the source data.


Parent topic: Hive replication policies