Using Hive replication policiesCloudera Docs
Using Hive replication policies
To create a Hive replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager, you must
        configure the required Ranger policy in Ranger, register the on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP
        Private Cloud Base) as a classic cluster in Management Console, register cloud account
        credentials in the Replication Manager service, verify cluster access, and configure minimum
        ports for replication. The replication load happens on the source on-premises cluster. You
        can replicate data on-premises to the cloud with a single cluster if the Metastore is
        running on the cloud.
These policies support table-level replication and can replicate Hive external tables
            from on-premises clusters (CDH and CDP Private Cloud Base) to cloud storage such as S3
            and ABFS and to Data Hubs. They also can:

replicate data stored in Hive tables, Hive metadata, data in Hive
                metastore, and Impala metadata (catalog server metadata) associated with Impala
                tables registered in the Hive metastore, andnoteHive2
                    managed tables are converted to external tables after replication.
migrate Sentry permissions to Ranger.noteTo
                    perform the Sentry policy replication, you must be running the Sentry service on
                    CDH 5.12 or higher, or any CDH 6.x version.

Hive metadata replication involves multiple entities. Replication Manager supports
            replication of external tables in Hive. Hive supports replication of external tables to
            the target cluster and it retains all the properties of external tables. The data files
            permission and ownership are preserved so that the relevant external processes can
            continue to write in it even after failover.
You can also use CDP CLI commands to create Hive replication policies. The CDP
            CLI commands for Replication Manager are under the
                replicationmanager CDP CLI option. For more information, see
                CDP CLI for Replication Manager.
importantBefore you create Hive replication policies,
            you must ensure that the required Ranger policy is set in Ranger and see Support matrix for CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager to verify whether your clusters are
            supported by Replication Manager. 
The Apache Ranger access policy model consists of the following components:

Specification of the resources that you can apply to a replication policy
                which includes the HDFS files and directories; Hive databases, tables, and columns;
                and HBase tables, column-families, and columns.
Specification of access conditions for specific users and groups.

You must set the Ranger policy for the hdfs user on the target
            cluster to perform all operations on all databases and tables. The same user role is
            used to import Hive Metastore. The hdfs user should have access
            to all Hive datasets, including all operations. Otherwise, Hive import fails during the
            replication process.
On the target cluster, the hive user must have Ranger admin
            privileges. The same hive user performs the metadata import
            operation.
For more information about Hive replication policies to replicate data from CDH clusters
            to CDP Public Cloud, see Migrate Hive data from CDH to CDP Public Cloud
            blog.

Preparing to create a Hive replication policyBefore you create the Hive replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication         Manager, you must prepare the clusters and verify cluster access and cloud         credentials.Creating Hive replication policyBefore you create a Hive replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager,     you must ensure that the prerequisites are complete and the required Ranger policy is set in     Ranger.Manage and monitor Hive replication policiesAfter you create a Hive replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager,         you can perform and monitor various tasks related to the replication policy. You can view         the job progress and replication logs. You can edit the advanced options to optimize a job         run. You can suspend a job and also activate a suspended job. You can edit the replication         policy as necessary.Parent topic: Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Public Cloud