Using HBase replication policiesCloudera Docs
Using HBase replication policies
To create an HBase replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager, you
        must register the on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base) as a classic cluster
        in Management Console, register cloud account credentials in the Replication Manager
        service, verify cluster access, and configure minimum ports for replication.

Before you create an HBase replication policy, you must:

understand how first-time setup configuration works.
understand how cluster pairing works.
verify whether your clusters are supported by Replication Manager. For more
                    information, see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Public
                        Cloud.
ensure that CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6 and higher clusters are Kerberos
                    enabled to use them as source classic clusters.
complete the prerequisites. For more information, see Prerequisites for HBase replication
                        policies.
(Optional) complete the steps mentioned in Troubleshooting replication policies in CDP
                        Public Cloud Replication Manager if you choose Perform Initial
                    Snapshot during HBase replication policy creation to replicate HBase tables with
                    several TB data.


importantBefore you create replication policies, see
                Support matrix for CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager to verify whether your clusters
            are supported by Replication Manager.
Understanding first-time setup configuration
When you create the first HBase replication policy to replicate HBase data from a
                source cluster to a target cluster, the Replication Manager completes the first-time
                setup configuration steps and then replicates the data. Subsequent HBase replication
                policies for the same cluster pair (ClusterA and ClusterB) do not require a
                first-time setup.
The first-time setup configuration completes the following steps:

Creates peers between the source (ClusterA) and target cluster
                    (ClusterB), that is, creates a cluster pair between ClusterA and ClusterB.
Initiates the required configuration changes.
Restarts the HBase service on both the clusters.importantIf you are replicating HBase data
                        from on-premises cluster to Cloudera Operational Database (COD) or Data Hub,
                        you must manually restart HBase service on the source cluster.

tipYou can create new HBase replication policies
                between two clusters even when the first-time setup between them is in
                    progress.When HBase replication policies are created, modified, or deleted
                    simultaneously, Replication Manager processes each operation independent of each
                    other.

Understanding cluster pair
The first-time setup configuration creates peers between the source
                (ClusterA) and target cluster (ClusterB), that is, creates a cluster pair between
                ClusterA and ClusterB. If a cluster pair (ClusterA and ClusterB) has one or more
                active/suspended HBase replication policies between them, you cannot pair either of
                the clusters with another cluster.
You can use ClusterA or ClusterB with another cluster in an HBase replication policy
                only if the following conditions are true:
ClusterA and ClusterB do not have existing HBase replication
                        policies.
All existing active/suspended HBase replication policies are
                        deleted.

A warning appears on the Select Destination page during HBase
                replication policy creation if you choose ClusterA or ClusterB as source or target
                (when no HBase replication policies exist between them) with another cluster or if
                the other cluster in the cluster pair is unreachable. To continue HBase replication
                policy creation, you must acknowledge the forced re-pairing of the clusters.


Preparing to create an HBase replication policyBefore you create HBase replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager,         you must prepare the clusters, register cloud storage in Replication Manager, and verify         cluster access.Creating HBase replication policyYou can replicate HBase data from a source classic cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud         Base cluster), COD, or Data Hub to a target Data Hub or COD cluster in CDP Public Cloud         Replication Manager.Manage and monitor HBase replication policiesAfter you create an HBase replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager,         you can perform and monitor various tasks related to the replication policy. You can also         view the job progress and replication logs. Parent topic: Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Public Cloud