Manage and monitor HDFS replication policiesCloudera Docs
Manage and monitor HDFS replication policies
After you create an HDFS replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager,
        you can perform and monitor various tasks related to the replication policy. You can view
        the job progress and replication logs. You can edit the advanced options to optimize a job
        run. You can suspend a job and also activate a suspended job. You can edit the replication
        policy as necessary.
On the Replication Policies page, you
            can perform the following actions and tasks on a replication policy and its
            jobs:

When you click Actions for an HDFS replication policy,
                    the following actions appear:



Action
Description



Edit*
Change the replication policy options as required for
                                        non-expired policies that are in active or suspended state.
                                        Based on the schedule you choose, the replication policy
                                        replicates data.You can edit the replication policies to
                                            better align with changing requirements. For example,
                                            you might want to change the frequency of a policy
                                            depending on the data size and importance of the data
                                            being replicated. noteA
                                                replication policy is associated with a cluster or a
                                                cluster pair, therefore you cannot change the
                                                clusters in the policy. Optionally,
                                            expand a replication policy on the Replication
                                                Policies page to edit the replication
                                            policy options which include frequency (start time
                                            cannot be modified if the policy has already started),
                                            queue name, maximum bandwidth, and maximum map
                                            slots.tipTo
                                            optimize the replication policy performance, you can
                                            configure the queue name, maximum bandwidth, and maximum
                                            map slots as necessary.


Delete
Deletes the replication policy permanently.


Suspend
Suspends a running replication policy.
                                            Activate the replication policy,
                                        if required.


View Log
Download, copy, or open the log. The log shows a brief
                                        output of the stdout and stderr logs of a single step of the
                                        latest replication policy job run.You can also view the current job status in the Replication Manager > Overview > Issues & Updates > Job Status column. If the job failed, click Failed to view the log
      details about the job.


Collect diagnostic bundle
Generates a diagnostic bundle for the replication policy.
                                        You can download the bundle as a ZIP file to your
                                            machine.Ensure that you are logged into the Cloudera
                                            Manager instances for both the source and target
                                            clusters before you download the bundle in Replication
                                            Manager.


*To view and use the replication policies with an empty name
      in Replication Manager, you must understand the following implementation:
If the Cloudera Manager API version is lower than 51, an existing replication
          policy with an empty name can be used and updated. However, if you edit the replication
          policy and provide a name for the replication policy in versions higher or equal to 51,
          you must ensure that the name conforms to the validation rules.
If the Cloudera Manager API version is higher or equal to 51, it is mandatory
          that you provide a unique name to the replication policy to continue using it. This is
          because API version 51 and higher enforces the validation rules on all the replication
          policies.
To pass the replication policy name validation, you must ensure that the replication
      policy name is unique. The name can contain letters, numbers, and the _
/
- characters. You must also ensure that it does not contain the
      characters % . ; \ nor any character that is not ASCII printable, which includes the ASCII
      characters less than 32 and the ASCII characters that are greater than or equal to 127.




When you expand the policy details, the Job History panel
                    appears. 
You can view the following details on the panel:


Previous jobs, current job, and one future scheduled job if any.


Job details which include:



Job details
Description



Started
Timestamp when the job started.


Ended
Timestamp when the job ended.


Duration
Time taken to complete the job.


Progress 
Current status of a running job.


Expected 
Remaining number of files and bytes expected to
                                                be copied for a running job. 


Copied 
Number of files and bytes copied for a running
                                                job and completed job.


Failed
Number of files and bytes that failed to be
                                                copied for a completed job.


Deleted
Number of files deleted for a completed
                                                job.


Skipped
Remaining number of files and bytes skipped from
                                                copying for a running job and complete job.





Click Actions to:


Abort the job.
Re-run an aborted or failed job.
View Log for the job. You can download,
                                    copy, or open it to track the job and to troubleshoot any issues
                                    for the job.





When you click a job on the Job History panel, the
                    following tabs appear:



Tab
Description



General
Shows the following job details:

Started at timestamp
Duration to complete the
                                                job
HDFS Replication Report to
                                                download the job statistics in CSV format
Job status Message



Command Details
Shows the steps that Replication Manager ran for the job
                                        along with the timestamp.




You can download the following CSV reports from the General  > HDFS Replication Report field to track the replication jobs and to troubleshoot
                    issues:



Report
Description



Listing
Lists all the files and directories copied during the
                                        replication job.


Status
Shows the complete status report of each file as:
an Error  occurred
                                                and the file was not copied.
a Deleted file.
an up-to-date file for which the replication was
                                                  Skipped.



Error Status 
Status report of all the copied files with errors. Each
                                        file shows the status, path, and message for the copied
                                        files with errors.


Skipped Status
Status report of all skipped files. Each file lists the
                                        status, path, and message for the databases and tables that
                                        were skipped.


Deleted Status 
Status report of all deleted files. Each file lists the
                                        status, path, and message for the databases and tables that
                                        were deleted.


Performance
Summary report about the performance of the running
                                        replication job which includes the last performance sample
                                        for each mapper that is working on the replication
                                        job.


Full Performance
Performance report of the job which includes the samples
                                        taken for all mappers during the replication job. 


noteThe reports are generated based on the source
                        Cloudera Manager response. If the Cloudera Manager response is interrupted
                        or is not handled as expected, corresponding error messages appear in HTML
                        format in the reports. 



Parent topic: Using HDFS replication policies