Preparing to create a Hive replication policyCloudera Docs
Preparing to create a Hive replication policy
Before you create the Hive replication policies in CDP Public Cloud Replication
        Manager, you must prepare the clusters and verify cluster access and cloud
        credentials.

Do the source cluster and target cluster meet the requirements to create an
                    Hive replication policy? 
For more information, see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP
                        Public Cloud.

Is the source CDH cluster or source CDP Private Cloud Base cluster registered
                    as a classic cluster on the Management Console?
CDH clusters and CDP Private Cloud Base clusters are managed by Cloudera
                    Manager. To enable these on-premises clusters for Replication Manager, you must
                    register them as classic clusters on the Management Console. After registration,
                    you can use them for data migration purposes.importantWhen you register a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a
                        classic cluster, ensure that you use only the Cloudera Manager IP
                            Address and Cloudera Manager Port
                        options and not the Register KNOX endpoint (Optional)
                        option.For information about registering an on-premises
                        cluster as a classic cluster, see Adding a CDH cluster and Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base
                            cluster.

Does the target Data Hub use Cloudera Manager 7.9.0 or higher? If not, upgrade
                    Cloudera Manager to version 7.9.0 or higher.

Have you configured the all-database, table, column Ranger
                    policy for the hdfs user on the source cluster and target
                    cluster to perform all the operations on all databases and tables?
The hdfs user role is used to import Hive Metastore and
                    must have access to all Hive datasets, including all operations. Otherwise, Hive
                    import fails during the replication process. On the target cluster, the
                        hive user must have Ranger admin privileges. The same
                        hive user performs the metadata import
                    operation.
To provide access, navigate to the Ranger Admin UI > Service Manager > Hadoop_SQL Policies > Access section, and provide hdfs user permission
                    to the all-database, table, column policy name.






Is an external account configured on the source CDH cluster's Cloudera Manager
                    which allows the CDH cluster to access CDP cloud storage?

tipThe external account can be configured on
                        the Cloudera Manager > Administration page and the account has the access key / secret key pair
                        that you can use to access CDP cloud storage.


Do you have the required cluster access to create replication policies?
Power users, the user who onboarded the source and target clusters, and users
                    with ClassicClusterAdmin or
                        ClassicClusterUser resource roles can create
                    replication policies on clusters for which they have access. For more
                    information, see Understanding account roles and resource
                        roles.tipEnsure that you have
                            Replication Administrator or Full Administrator role
                        on the source on-premises cluster.

Do you have the required cluster access to view the replication policies?
Existing Hive replication policies are visible to users who have access to the
                    source cluster in the replication policy. A warning appears if you do not have
                    access to the source cluster.If you can view the policies, you can perform
                        other actions on the policy including policy update and policy delete
                        operations.noteA Replication Manager user can
                        browse, within Replication Manager, the folder structure of any cluster
                        enabled for Replication Manager. Therefore, permitted users can view
                        folders, files, and databases in Replication Manager that they might not
                        have access to in HDFS. The users cannot view the content of files on the
                        source or destination clusters, nor can they modify or delete folders or
                        files that are viewable from Replication Manager.

Is the required cloud credential that you want to use in the replication policy
                    registered with the Replication Manager service? 
For more information, see Working with cloud credentials.

Do you need to replicate data securely? If so, ensure that the SSL/TLS
                    certificate exchange between two Cloudera Manager instances that manage source
                    and target clusters respectively is configured. For more information, see Configuring SSL/TLS certificate exchange
                        between two Cloudera Manager instances.

Are the following ports open and available for Replication Manager?




Connectivity required for
Default Port
Type
Description



Data transfer from classic cluster hosts to
                                            cloud storage
80 or 443 (TLS)
Outbound
Outgoing port. All classic cluster nodes
                                            must be able to access S3/ADLS Gen2 endpoint.


Cloudera Manager Admin Console HTTP
7180 or 7183 (when TLS enabled)
Inbound
Incoming port. Open on the source cluster
                                            to enable the target Cloudera Manager in cloud to
                                            communicate to the on-premises Cloudera Manager.


Classic cluster
6000-6049 for CCMv1 443 for
                                            CCMv2
Outbound

Connecting the source classic cluster to
                                                the CDP Management Console through Cluster
                                                Connectivity Manager (CCM)
For more information, see Outbound network
                                                  access for CCM,and CCM
                                                overview.






Consider the following best practices while using CDP Public Cloud on
   Microsoft Azure ADLS Gen2 (ABFS):
Ensure that the on-premises cluster (port 443) can access the
      https://login.microsoftonline.com endpoint. This is because the Hadoop client in
     the on-premises cluster (CDH/CDP Private Cloud Base) connects to the endpoint to acquire the
     access tokens before it connects to Azure ADLS storage. For more information, see the
      General Azure guidelines row in the  Azure-specific endpoints table.
Ensure that the steps mentioned in the General Azure guidelines and Azure
      Data Lake Storage Gen 2 rows in the Azure-specific endpoints table are complete so that the
     endpoint connects to the target path successfully.



The following system architecture diagram shows the interaction between
                        components during Hive replication using Hive replication policies: Figure 1. System architecture diagram for Hive replication in CDP Public
                                Cloud Replication Manager




After the clusters and cloud storage requirements are met,
            you can create a Hive replication policy.

Parent topic: Using Hive replication policies