Preparing to create an HDFS replication policyCloudera Docs
Preparing to create an HDFS replication policy
Before you create the HDFS replication policies to replicate HDFS data, register the
        on-premises cluster (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base) as a classic cluster in Management
        Console, register cloud account credentials in the Replication Manager service, verify
        cluster access, and configure minimum ports for replication.

Do the source cluster and target cluster meet the requirements to create an
                    HDFS replication policy? 
For more information, see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP
                        Public Cloud.

Is the required on-premises cluster (CDH cluster or CDP Private Cloud Base
                    cluster) registered as a classic cluster on the Management Console?
CDH clusters and CDP Private Cloud Base clusters are managed by Cloudera
                    Manager. To enable these on-premises clusters for Replication Manager, you must
                    register them as classic clusters on the Management Console. After registration,
                    you can use them for data migration purposes.importantWhen you register a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a
                        classic cluster, ensure that you use only the Cloudera Manager IP
                            Address and Cloudera Manager Port
                        options and not the Register KNOX endpoint (Optional)
                        option.For information about registering an on-premises
                        cluster as a classic cluster, see Adding a CDH cluster and Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base
                            cluster.

Is an external account available in the Cloudera Manager instance that has
                    access to the bucket or container that you are using in the HDFS replication
                    policy?
For more information, see Role-based credential on AWS, App-based credential on Azure, and
                    Cloudera Manager documentation.

Do you have the required cluster access to create replication policies?
Power users, the user who onboarded the source and target clusters, and users
                    with ClassicClusterAdmin or
                        ClassicClusterUser resource roles can create
                    replication policies on clusters for which they have access. For more
                    information, see Understanding account roles and resource
                        roles.tipEnsure that you have
                            Replication Administrator or Full Administrator role
                        on the source on-premises cluster.

Do you have the required cluster access to view the replication policies?
Existing HDFS replication policies are visible to users who have access to the
                    source cluster in the replication policy. A warning appears if you do not have
                    access to the source cluster.If you can view the policies, you can perform
                        other actions on the policy including policy update and policy delete
                        operations.noteA Replication Manager user can
                        browse, within Replication Manager, the folder structure of any cluster
                        enabled for Replication Manager. Therefore, permitted users can view
                        folders, files, and databases in Replication Manager that they might not
                        have access to in HDFS. The users cannot view the content of files on the
                        source or destination clusters, nor can they modify or delete folders or
                        files that are viewable from Replication Manager.

Is the required cloud credential that you want to use in the replication policy
                    registered with the Replication Manager service? 
For more information, see Working with cloud credentials.

Do you need to replicate data securely? If so, ensure that the SSL/TLS
                    certificate exchange between two Cloudera Manager instances that manage source
                    and target clusters respectively is configured. For more information, see Configuring SSL/TLS certificate exchange
                        between two Cloudera Manager instances.

Are the following ports open and available for Replication Manager?




Connectivity required
Default Port
Type
Description



Data transfer from classic cluster hosts to cloud
                                            storage
80 or 443 (TLS)
Outbound
Outgoing port. All classic cluster nodes must be able
                                            to access S3/ADLS Gen2 endpoint.


Classic cluster
6000-6049 for CCMv1 443 for CCMv2
Outbound
Connecting source classic cluster to the CDP
                                            Management Console through Cluster Connectivity Manager
                                                (CCM).For more information, see Outbound network
                                                  access for CCM,and CCM
                                                overview.





Consider the following best practices while using CDP Public Cloud on
   Microsoft Azure ADLS Gen2 (ABFS):
Ensure that the on-premises cluster (port 443) can access the
      https://login.microsoftonline.com endpoint. This is because the Hadoop client in
     the on-premises cluster (CDH/CDP Private Cloud Base) connects to the endpoint to acquire the
     access tokens before it connects to Azure ADLS storage. For more information, see the
      General Azure guidelines row in the  Azure-specific endpoints table.
Ensure that the steps mentioned in the General Azure guidelines and Azure
      Data Lake Storage Gen 2 rows in the Azure-specific endpoints table are complete so that the
     endpoint connects to the target path successfully.



The following system architecture diagram shows the interaction between
                        components during HDFS replication using HDFS replication policies: Figure 1. System architecture diagram for HDFS replication in CDP Public
                                Cloud Replication Manager




After the clusters and cloud storage requirements are met,
            you can create an HDFS replication policy.

Parent topic: Using HDFS replication policies