AppendixCloudera Docs
Appendix
Before you create replication policies, you must register the Amazon S3 or Azure cloud
  credentials to use as cloud storage in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager, and register the
  on-premises clusters (CDH or CDP Private Cloud Base) as classic clusters in the Management
  Console. You can also configure an SSL/TLS certificate exchange between two Cloudera Manager
  instances that manage source and target cluster respectively to replicate data
  securely.
Support matrix for CDP Public Cloud Replication ManagerYou can use Replication Manager or other alternate replication methods to replicate         HDFS, Hive external tables, and HBase data between on-premises clusters (CDH clusters, CDP         Private Cloud Base clusters, HDP clusters) and CDP Public Cloud (Amazon S3 and Microsoft         Azure ADLS Gen2 (ABFS)) clusters. Replication Manager from HDP clusters to CDP Public Cloud         Azure is a beta feature and is not available for general use.Verify cluster requirementsYou must complete the prerequisites before you create a replication policy in CDP         Public Cloud Replication Manager.Working with cloud credentialsThe Cloud Credentials page shows the registered cloud credentials for Replication         Manager. To replicate data to a storage cloud account, you must register the cloud         credentials, so that the Replication Manager can access your cloud account. The supported         cloud storage accounts are Amazon S3 and Azure Blob Filesystem (ABFS). On the Cloud         Credentials page, you can add, update, or delete cloud credentials. Before you register an         Amazon S3 cloud account, ensure the cloud bucket requirements are met. Before you add Azure         Cloud Credentials in Cloudera Manager, ensure the Blob container requirements are met. Ports for Replication Manager on CDP Public CloudBefore you create replication policies, you must ensure that the required ports are         open and available for data replication. You can verify the mandatory ports using the         Replication Manager network security diagram.Configuring SSL/TLS certificate exchange between two Cloudera Manager instancesThe Replication Manager configures replication peers between two clusters before         running the replication job. You can manually set up an SSL/TLS certificate exchange between         two Cloudera Manager instances that manage source and target cluster respectively.         Replication Manager uses this information to set up the peers for secure data         replication.Parent topic: Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Public Cloud