Registering Amazon S3 cloud accountCloudera Docs
Registering Amazon S3 cloud account
You must have valid Amazon S3 credentials to register the cloud
    account with Replication Manager.

When you add cloud credentials for your Amazon S3 account, you can choose one of the
        following authentication methods:

Access secret key. To use this authentication type, you
          require an AWS Access Key and an AWS Secret key that you obtain from Amazon. Cloudera
          Manager stores these values securely and does not store them in world-readable locations.
          The credentials are masked and encrypted in the configurations passed to processes managed
          by Cloudera Manager, and redacted from the logs.
IAM role. Amazon Identity and Access Management (IAM)
          can be used to create users, groups, and roles for use with Amazon Web Services, such as
          EC2 and Amazon S3. IAM role-based access provides the same level of access to all clients
          that use the role.importantYou can choose the IAM role
            authentication type only when the following conditions are met:
The source cluster is hosted on an AWS EC2 infrastructure. 
The source cluster Cloudera Manager and all the nodes in the cluster are running
                on an EC2 instance. 
The source cluster Cloudera Manager has the same IAM role. 
For information about configuring AWS credentials, see Introduction to role based provisioning credential in
              AWS.



Go to Replication Manager > Cloud Credentials page, and click  Add.

In the Add Cloud Credential window, perform the following
          steps:


Select the Cluster.


Select S3 as the Cloud Storage
              Type.


Name - Provide a unique cloud credential name.


Authentication Type - Select one of the following
              authentication type:


Select the authentication type as Access Secret Key from
                  the drop-down. 
Access Key - Enter the valid access key.
Secret Key - Enter the valid secret key.

Select IAM Role if the conditions mentioned in the IAM Role
                    conditions section are met, and click Save.





Click Validate.

noteUsing the validation feature is recommended to ensure that the
            Amazon S3 bucket keys are valid. If the keys are not valid, the Replication Manager
            policy cannot execute a copy of data to the target Amazon S3 bucket.





Verify whether the credentials are listed on the
        Cloud Credentials page.

Parent topic: Working with cloud credentials