Creating Hive replication policyCloudera Docs
Creating Hive replication policy
Before you create a Hive replication policy in CDP Public Cloud Replication Manager,
    you must ensure that the prerequisites are complete and the required Ranger policy is set in
    Ranger.

Alternatively, you can also use CDP CLI commands to create Hive replication
        policies. The CDP CLI commands for Replication Manager are under the
          replicationmanager CDP CLI option. For more information, see CDP CLI for Replication Manager.


On the Management Console  > Replication Manager > Replication Policies page, click Add Policy.
The Create Replication Policy wizard appears.

On the General page, choose or enter the following
          information:



Option
Description



Hive
Creates a Hive replication policy.


Policy Name
Enter a unique name for the replication policy.


Description
Optional. Enter a brief description about the replication
                    policy.


The following image shows a sample General page in the
              Create Replication Policy wizard:





Click Next.

On the Select Source page, enter or choose the options as
          required:



Option 
Description



Source cluster
Choose a classic cluster as a source cluster.


Source Databases and Tables
Enter the database name and table name. Click Add to
                    enter more databases and tables as necessary.


Run As Username (on source)
Optional. The replication policy uses the Default
                    username to replicate data.Enter another username if you want the
                      replication policy to use it to replicate data. Ensure that the user has the
                      necessary permissions to replicate data.noteYou
                      must provide a username for Kerberized clusters.




Click Next.

On the Select Destination page, enter or choose the options as
          required:



Option 
Description



Destination Data Lake
Choose a Data Lake or Data Hub as the destination cluster.The
                        Managed Warehouse Path and the Hive
                        External Table Base Directory Path for the Data Lake
                      appears.noteAdministrators can edit the
                        Hive External Table Base Directory field to add
                      another path to override the default storage location for replicated Hive
                      external tables. Before you add another path to override the default storage
                      location, ensure that the following steps are complete in the Ranger UI:
Alter the ranger policy Default: Hive warehouse
                            locations in cm_s3 service to allow the Hive service to
                          access the updated locations of S3 bucket path.
Manually update the Ranger and Sentry permissions.
noteThe Data Hubs, using Cloudera Manager
                      version 7.9.0 and higher, for which you have access permissions appear
                      automatically. If you want to use a Data Hub that appears disabled, you must
                      upgrade the Cloudera Manager version to 7.9.0 or higher for the Data
                      Hub.


Cloud Credential on Source
Choose the required cloud credential. The cloud credentials that you
                    register for the selected source cluster on the Cloud
                      Credentials page appear in this field. You can also add cloud
                    credentials using the Add Cloud Credential link.




Click Validate Policy.
Replication Manager verifies whether the details provided are correct.

Click Next.

On the Schedule page, choose or enter the following
          information:



Option
Description



Run Now
Starts to replicate the existing HDFS data after the replication policy
                    creation is complete. Choose the frequency to replicate data
                    periodically.


Schedule Run
Runs the replication policy to replicate data at a later time. Choose the
                    date and time for the first run, and then choose the frequency to replicate data
                      periodically.tipOn the
                        Replication Policies page, click 
                      to change the timezone.


Frequency

Choose one of the following options:

Does Not Repeat
Custom - In the Custom
                          Recurrence dialog box, choose the time, date, and the
                        frequency to run the policy.

noteEnsure that the frequency in a schedule enables a
                      job to finish before the next job starts. Also, ensure that the jobs based on
                      the same policy do not overlap. If a job is not completed before another job
                      starts, the second job does not run and the job status appears as
                        Skipped. If a job is consistently skipped, you might
                      need to modify the frequency of the job.





Click Next.

On the Additional Settings page, enter or choose the values as
          necessary:



Option
Description



YARN Queue Name
Enter the name of the YARN queue for the cluster to which the replication
                    job is submitted if you are using Capacity Scheduler queues to limit resource
                    consumption. The default value for this field is default.


Maximum Maps Slots
Set the maximum number of map tasks (simultaneous copies) per replication
                    job. The default value is 20.


Maximum Bandwidth
Adjust this setting so that each map task is throttled to consume only the
                    specified bandwidth.Each map task ((simultaneous copy) is restricted to
                      consume only the specified bandwidth. This is not always exact. The map
                      throttles back its bandwidth consumption during a copy in such a way that the
                      net bandwidth used tends towards the specified value. You can adjust this
                      setting so that each map task is throttled to consume only the specified
                      bandwidth so that the net bandwidth used tends towards the specified value.
                      The default value for the bandwidth is 100MB per second for each
                    mapper.


Number of concurrent HMS connections
Enter the number of concurrent Hive Metastore connections. The connections
                    are used to concurrently import and export metadata from Hive. Increase the
                    number of threads to improve Replication Manager performance. By default, a new
                    replication policy uses 4 connections.
If you set the value to 1 or more, Replication Manager uses
                        multi-threading with the number of connections specified.
If you set the value to 0 or fewer, Replication Manager uses
                        single threading and a single connection. 



Sentry Permissions
Choose Include Sentry Permissions with Metadata to
                    migrate Sentry permissions during the replication job. Otherwise, choose
                      Exclude Sentry Permissions from Metadata to not migrate
                    Sentry permissions during the replication job.


Skip URI Privileges
Select this option if you do not want to include URI privileges when you
                    migrate Sentry permissions. During migration, the URI privileges are
                      translated to point to an equivalent location in S3. If the resources have a
                      different location in Amazon S3, do not migrate the URI privileges because the
                      URI privileges might not be valid.


Replication Option
Choose Metadata and Data to replicate metadata and
                    data in files and directories. Otherwise, choose Metadata
                      only to replicate the metadata of files and directories


Directory for metadata file
Enter / or a valid folder path in the target cluster
                    to save the metadata file. If the field is empty or if the specified folder does
                    not exist, Replication Manager creates a new folder.


Force Overwrite
Select to overwrite data in the destination metastore if incompatible
                    changes are detected. For example, if the destination metastore was
                      modified, and a new partition was added to a table, this option forces
                      deletion of that partition, overwriting the table with the version found on
                      the source. If you do not choose the option and the Hive replication process
                      detects incompatible changes on the source cluster, Hive replication fails.
                      This sometimes occurs with recurring replications, where the metadata
                      associated with an existing database or table on the source cluster changes
                      over time. 


Invalidate Impala Metadata on Destination
Choose the option to run the Impala INVALIDATE METADATA statement per table
                    on the destination cluster after completing the replication. The statement
                    purges the metadata of the replicated tables and views within the destination
                    cluster’s Impala upon completion of replication, allowing other Impala clients
                    at the destination to query these tables successfully with accurate results.

                      You must run the INVALIDATE METADATA statement manually for the following
                        scenarios:
If the destination Cloudera Manager does not have an Impala
                          service.
If the source contains User Defined Functions (UDF). 
warningHowever,
                      this operation is potentially unsafe if DDL operations are being performed on
                      any of the replicated tables or views while the replication is running. In
                      general, directly modifying replicated data/metadata on the destination is not
                      recommended. Ignoring this can lead to unexpected or incorrect behavior of
                      applications and queries using these tables or views.



Replication Strategy
Choose one of the following replication strategies to determine whether the
                    file replication tasks should be distributed among the mappers statically or
                    dynamically. 
Static distributes file replication tasks among the
                        mappers up front to achieve an uniform distribution based on the file sizes. 
Dynamic distributes the file replication tasks in
                        small sets to the mappers, and as each mapper completes its tasks, it
                        dynamically acquires and processes the next unallocated set of tasks. 
The default replication strategy is Dynamic.


MapReduce Service
Choose the MapReduce or YARN service to use.


Log Path
Enter an alternate path for the logs, if required.


Error Handling
Select the following options as necessary: 
Skip Checksum Checks - Determines whether to skip
                        checksum checks on the copied files. If selected, checksums are not
                        validated. Checksums are checked by default. noteYou
                          must skip checksum checks to prevent replication failure due to
                          non-matching checksums in the following cases: 
Replications from an encrypted zone on the source cluster to an
                              encrypted zone on a destination cluster.
Replications from an encryption zone on the source cluster to an
                              unencrypted zone on the destination cluster.
Replications from an unencrypted zone on the source cluster to an
                              encrypted zone on the destination cluster.
Checksums are used for two purposes: 
To skip replication of files that have already been copied. If
                                Skip Checksum Checks is selected, the
                              replication job skips copying a file if the file lengths and
                              modification times are identical between the source and destination
                              clusters. Otherwise, the job copies the file from the source to the
                              destination.
To redundantly verify the integrity of data. However, checksums are
                              not required to guarantee accurate transfers between clusters. HDFS
                              data transfers are protected by checksums during transfer and storage
                              hardware also uses checksums to ensure that data is accurately stored.
                              These two mechanisms work together to validate the integrity of the
                              copied data.

Skip Listing Checksum Checks - Whether to skip
                        checksum check when comparing two files to determine whether they are same
                        or not. If skipped, the file size and last modified time are used to
                        determine if files are the same or not. Skipping the check improves
                        performance during the mapper phase. Note that if you select the
                          Skip Checksum Checks option, this check is also
                        skipped.
Abort on Error - Whether to abort the job on an
                        error. If selected, files copied up to that point remain on the destination,
                        but no additional files are copied. Abort on Error is
                        not selected by default.
Abort on Snapshot Diff Failures - If a snapshot
                        diff fails during replication, the replication policy uses a complete copy
                        to replicate data. If you select this option, the policy aborts the
                        replication when it encounters an error instead.



Preserve
Choose the required options to preserve the block size, replication count,
                    permissions (including ACLs), and extended attributes (XAttrs) as they exist on
                    the source file system, or to use the settings as configured on the destination
                    file system. By default source system settings are preserved. When
                        Permission is selected, and both the source and
                      destination clusters support ACLs, replication preserves ACLs. Otherwise, ACLs
                      are not replicated. When Extended attributes is
                      selected, and both the source and destination clusters support extended
                      attributes, replication preserves them. (This option only displays when both
                      source and destination clusters support extended attributes.) If you
                      select one or more of the Preserve options and you are
                      replicating to S3 or ADLS, the values all of these items are saved in
                      metadata files on S3 or ADLS. When you replicate from S3 or ADLS to
                      HDFS, you can select which of these options you want to preserve.noteTo preserve permissions to HDFS, you must be running as
                      a superuser on the destination cluster. Use the Run As
                        Username option to set the username.


Delete Policy
Choose the required options to determine whether the files that were
                    deleted on the source should also be deleted from the destination directory.
                    This policy also determines the handling of files in the destination location
                    that are unrelated to the source. Options include: 
Keep Deleted Files - Retains the destination files
                        even when they no longer exist at the source. This is the default
                        option.
Delete to Trash - If the HDFS trash is enabled,
                        files are moved to the trash folder. This is not supported when replicating
                        to S3 or ADLS.
Delete Permanently - Uses the least amount of
                        space; use with caution.



Alerts
Choose the required options to generate alerts for various state changes in
                    the replication workflow. You can alert on failure, on start, on success, or
                    when the replication workflow is aborted.




Click Create.

After the replication policy runs successfully, you can view
      the replication job status on the Replication Policies page. Verify
      whether the job starts and runs as expected.The administrator can verify whether
        the job starts and runs as expected using the following steps:
For HDFS data replication, check the cloud storage path (for example, S3
          bucket path) to verify whether the data was successfully copied in the specified
          bucket.
For Hive metadata replication, verify whether the specified source database,
          along with tables, partitions, UDFs and column stats are available in the Data Lake HMS
          instance. For this, the administrator can use a Data Hub cluster and run the corresponding
          queries using Hue or beeline.
For Ranger policies, query the Ranger policies to ensure that the Sentry
          policies are properly mapped as Ranger policies for the right users and groups.
noteIf the CDH source database contains functions, you must
        explicitly run the reload function command to view the migrated
        replication functions in the target location.

Parent topic: Using Hive replication policies