Enabling independent axis scaleCloudera Docs
Enabling independent axis scale

CDP Data Visualization lets you apply independent axis to
      trellised visuals. Trellis charts are very powerful visualization tools. However, they do not
      work well when one trellis partition contains values that are several orders of magnitude
      larger than in other trellis partitions. The charts that represent segments with smaller
      values are very difficult to interpret. You can mitigate this problem by enabling independent
      axis.

On the right side of Visual Designer, click
            Settings.
In the Settings menu, click
          Trellis.



To enable independent axis scale, select the relevant option.

Depending on the type of visual, this option may appear as one of:

Independent Dimension Scale

For Bar, Lines, Areas, Grouped Bars, and Box Plot visuals, to make dimension
                  scale independent, navigate to the Trellis menu, and select
                    Independent Dimension Scale.




Independent Measure Scale

For Box Plot visual, to make the measure scale independent, navigate to the
                    Trellis menu, and select Independent Measure
                    Scale.




Independent Aggregate Scale

For Bar, Lines, Areas, and Grouped Bars visuals, to make the aggregate scale
                  independent, navigate to the Trellis menu, and select
                    Independent Aggregate Scale.




Independent X Scale
Independent Y Scale

For Scatter and Histogram visuals, to make the X and/or Y scales independent,
                  navigate to the Trellis menu, and select
                    Independent X Scale and/or Independent Y
                    Scale.




Scale independently across trellis

For Gauge and Bullet visuals, to scale independently across trellis, navigate to
                  the Trellis menu, and select Scale independently
                    across trellis.




Independent scales

For Map visual, to scale independently across trellis, navigate to the
                    Trellis menu, and select Independent
                    scales.




Independent date scale

For Calendar Heatmap visual, to make the date scale independent, navigate to the
                    Trellis menu, and select Independent date
                    scale.





To learn how to make scales independent, see Trellis option with independent
              scale.



Related informationTrellis option with independent scale Parent topic: Customizing trellis