Configure the processor for your data targetCloudera Docs
Configure the processor for your data target
You can set up a data flow to move data into many locations. This example assumes
        that you are moving data into Apache Hive using PutHive3Streaming. If you
        are moving data into another location, review Getting Started with Apache NiFi
        for information about how to build a data flow, and about other data ingest processor
        options.

Launch the Configure Processor window, by right-clicking
                    the processor and selecting Configure.

Click the Properties tab.

Configure PutHive3Streaming with the required values. 

The following table includes a description and example values for the
                        properties required to configure an ingest data flow into Hive. For a
                        complete list of PutHive3Streaming, see the
                            processor documentation.


Property
Description
Value for ingest to Hive data
                                        flow



Database name
The name of the database in which to put the
                                        data.
retail


Table name
The name of the database table in which to put
                                        the data. 
customer


Record Reader

ReadAvro


Hive Metastore URI
The URI location for the Hive Metastore. Note that this
                                        is not the location of the Hive Server. The default port for
                                        the Hive metastore is 9083.
thift://<datalake-master-host-name:9083


Hive Configuration Resources
A file or comma separated list of files which contains
                                        the Hive configuration.
Replace with the file paths for the three files you
                                        downloaded in Obtain the Hive connection
                                            details: 
hdfs-site.xml
hive-site.xml
core-site.xml



Kerberos Principal
Specify your CDP machine user name.
srv_nifi-hive-ingest


Kerberos Password
Specify your CDP machine user password.
Password1!





Parent topic: Ingesting data into Hive