Create IDBroker mappingCloudera Docs
Create IDBroker mapping
To enable your CDP user to utilize the central authentication features CDP provides
        and to exchange credentials for AWS or Azure access tokens, you have to map this CDP user to
        the correct IAM role or Azure Managed Service Identity (MSI). The option to add/modify these
        mappings is available from the Management Console in your CDP environment.

Go to the environment in which your Flow Management and Data Engineering
                    clusters are running.

To access IDBroker Mappings, click Actions | Manage
                        Access and select the IDBroker Mapping
                    tab in the next screen, where you can provide mappings for users or
                    groups.

Click Edit.

Add a new mapping for your service user, mapping the user to an existing IAM
                    role or Azure Managed Identity Resource ID that has access to the underlying
                    storage which is used by the target Hive table.

For example:





Add your CDP user and the corresponding AWS or Azure role that provides write
                    access to your folder in your S3 bucket or ADLS folder to the Current
                        Mappings section.

note
You can get the AWS IAM role Amazon Resource Name (ARN) from
                            the Roles Summary page in AWS and can copy into
                            the IDBroker role field.
You can get the Azure Managed Identity Resource ID by
                            navigating to Managed Identities->Your Managed
                                Identity->Properties->Resource ID.



Click Save and Sync.

Ensure that your IDBroker mapping change is synchronized to the environment
                    successfully.

Create a Hive table and add Ranger policies that allow
            your machine user write access to your Hive table.

Related informationIDBrokerOnboarding CDP users and groups for AWS cloud storageOnboarding CDP users and groups for Azure cloud storageParent topic: Ingesting data into Hive