Register software repositoriesCloudera Docs
Register software repositories
Before you use Ambari to perform the stack upgrade, you must register the software repositories for the new target version with Ambari and then install the software on all hosts in the cluster.

Log into Ambari.

Browse to Cluster Admin > Stack and Versions.

Click the Versions tab. You see the version currently
                    running, marked as Current.

noteThe full version depends on the HDP version you are actually running. For
                        example, if you are currently running the HDP 3.0.1.0 release, you would see
                        something like HDP-3.0.1.0-187  as the full version number.


Click Manage Versions.

Proceed to register a new version by clicking Register
                        Version.

Select the software version for your cluster.Choose the HDP Version 
If your Ambari host has internet access, available maintenance
                        versions display as options in a drop-down list.
Make sure to use the Version Definition File (VDF) option for HDP
                        7.1.x.x.
If you see the VDF option for another version, click Add
                        Version… and upload the VDF file for HDP 7.1.x.x.
                        In addition, a Default Version Definition is
                        also included in the list if you do not have Internet access or are
                        not sure which specific version to install. If you choose the
                        Default Version Definition, you must
                        enter a "two-digit Version Number" in the
                        Name input field. If you have
                        difficulties, contact Cloudera Support to obtain the VDF for HDP
                        7.1.x.x.


Click Save.

Click Dashboard.

noteFor SLES 12:
Create the hdp.cat file with your paywall credentials. The
                                file is available here:
                                    /etc/zypp/credentials.d/hdp.cat. This is
                                the default location. If there is a change in the location of the
                                    hdp.cat file, then you must provide the changed
                                location. You must update the username and password in the
                                    hdp.cat file: username=<username>password=<password>
Add ?credentials=hdp.cat as a postfix to the end of
                                BaseURL and gpgkey. For example,
                                    https://archive.cloudera.com/p/HDPDC/7.x/7.1.8.0/ambari.repo?credentials=hdp.cat
 For more information, see Zypp Configuration
                                options.




HDP Intermediate bits for 7.1.x.0 RepositoriesHDP repositories are available for RHEL/CentOS, Sles, and Ubuntu.Software download matrix for 3.1.5 to CDP 7.1.xAll the download links related to HDP, Ambari, Cloudera Manager, CDP Private Cloud Base, and so on are available here. Parent topic: Upgrading HDP to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.x