Before upgrading any clusterCloudera Docs
Before upgrading any cluster
Prior to installing HDP intermediate bits using Ambari as a part of the CDP upgrade
        process, your cluster must meet the certain prerequisites to ensure that the cluster is in a
        healthy operating mode and can successfully manage the upgrade process.
For any Cluster
Disk Space: Be sure to have adequate space on /usr/hdp for
            the target HDP version. Each complete install of an HDP version occupies about 10GB of
            disk space.
Ambari Agent Heartbeats: All Ambari Agents must be communicating and heartbeating to Ambari Server. Any hosts that are not heartbeating must be in Maintenance mode.
Hive Upgrade: The upgrade process does not back up the Hive Metastore, nor does it compact ACID tables. Before upgrading Hive, you must:
        
Manually back up your Hive metastore database after using the pre-upgrade tool, described later, and before upgrading.
If you have ACID tables in your Hive metastore database, enable ACID operations
                    using Ambari Web or set Hive configuration properties to enable ACID.noteYou
                        must remove the components that are unsupported in CDP Private Cloud Base.
                        For more information, see HDP Core component version changes. If you are not
                        using a component in the CDP cluster, then you must remove them. The unused
                        component extends the time and complexity of the HDP to CDP
                    upgrade.

Host Maintenance Mode
The following two scenarios are checked:

Any hosts in Maintenance mode must not be hosting any Service Master Components.
Any host in Maintenance Mode that is not hosting Master Components is allowed but
                you will receive a warning. You can proceed with the upgrade. But these hosts will
                not be upgraded and before finalising the upgrade, you must delete these hosts from
                the cluster.

Service Maintenance Mode: No services can be in Maintenance mode, except for Ambari Metrics System, SmartSense, and Log Search.
Services Started: All services must be started, except for Ambari Metrics System, SmartSense, and Log Search.
Service Checks: All service checks must pass. Be sure to run Service Actions > Run Service Check on all services (and remediate if necessary) prior to attempting an HDP upgrade.
        

Parent topic: Ambari and HDP Upgrade Checklist