Cloudera Manager Installation and SetupCloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager Installation and Setup
 Install Cloudera Manager, install Cloudera Manager agent and daemons, add Cloudera
        Management service, enable TLS, and finally configure clusters to use Kerberos.


Prepare to install and configure the Cloudera Manager packages. For more
                    information, see Configuring Repository. Do this if you
                    have not done it already. Confirm that the repo is set up.

Install Cloudera Manager Server. For more information on installing Cloudera
                    Manager Server, see Installing Cloudera Manager.

noteDuring the upgrade process, you can place Cloudera Manager and its related
                        Cloudera Manager Services components on the same node as Ambari. Ensure that
                        the node has sufficient capacity to temporarily run Cloudera Manager and
                        Ambari in parallel. If you do not wish to colocate these services, you can
                        place them on separate management nodes in the cluster.


Preconfigure the databases for:


Ranger
Cloudera Manager Server 
Cloudera Management Service roles - Reports Manager 
Data Analytics Studio (DAS) Supported with PostgreSQL only. 
Hue 
Each Hive metastore 
Oozie 
Schema Registry 
Streams Messaging Manager For more information, see Setup Cloudera Manager
                                    database and Install and Configure
                                    Databases.



Install Agent on all hosts in the cluster. It is possible to add hosts to
                    Cloudera Manager using the Installation Wizard.

Start Cloudera Manager Server and Cloudera Manager agent on all hosts. For more
                    information, see Cloudera Manager Agent and Cloudera Manager Server.

Install Cloudera Manager User licence. For more information, see Installation Wizard. (Upload the
                    license file and exit the cluster setup by clicking the Cloudera Manager icon )

caution

Do not set up a cluster using the Wizard (Step 7) .
Do not proceed to Welcome (Add Cluster - Installation).




Add Hosts to a cluster. To add hosts to a cluster, see
                        Adding Hosts to a cluster.

Add Cloudera Manager management service to the cluster. To add services to the
                    cluster, see Select Services.

noteSome of the services in Cloudera Manager management service may not come
                        up due to port conflicts in HDP. The respective service needs to be stopped
                        in the Ambari-manager HDP cluster to workaround the issue.


Set up Kerberos. If you have a Kerberos cluster, then you must add the KDC
                    details in the Administration>Security>Kerberos Credentials>Setup KDC
                        for Cloudera Manager page using Cloudera Manager. For more
                    information on Kerberos and Active Directory, see Enabling Kerberos
                        authentication for CDP

note

You must set the value of Maximum Renewable Life for
                                Principals to 0 or to the value that was provided
                                for Ambari KDC. If Maximum Renewable Life for
                                    Principal and Ambari KDC do not match, keytabs
                                generation fails in Cloudera Manager.
If you are not upgrading from CDH or HDP to CDP Private Cloud Base,
                                you can follow the Production Installation
                                instructions to perform a fresh installation in your production
                                environment.




The AM2CM tool migrates service principal names from the service user names in
                    the HDP cluster. If the HDP cluster has default service usernames then Cloudera
                    Manager is configured with default principal names. For example
                        hdfs, yarn, and
                        hive. If the HDP cluster contains user names like
                        cstm-hdfs and cstm-hive then
                    Cloudera Manager is configured the principal names with same names. For more
                    information, see Hadoop Users (user:group) and Kerberos Principals.


Related informationConfiguring RepositoryInstall Cloudera Manager ServerInstallation WizardHow to Configure Clusters to Use Kerberos for AuthenticationSoftware download matrixInstalling JDBC DriverYou must install the required JDBC driver.Proxy Cloudera Manager through Apache KnoxIn order to have Cloudera Manager proxied through Knox,         there are some steps you must complete.Parent topic: Transitioning to Cloudera Manager