Search post-HDP-upgrade tasksCloudera Docs
Search post-HDP-upgrade
        tasks
After upgrading your HDP cluster to Cloudera Runtime, you need to add a Solr service
        to your CDP cluster where you can recreate the collections you transitioned from HDP Search.
        Once done, you can proceed with reindexing data to the transitioned collections.


HDP is upgraded to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher.
The management platform is transitioned from Ambari to Cloudera Manager.



In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, add Solr service to your CDP
                    cluster.
For more information, see Adding a Service.

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to Solr service > Configuration.

In the Search field, type upgrade to
                    filter the configuration parameters.

For the Solr Server for Upgrade property, select one of
                    your Solr Server hosts. When you run the migration
                    script, make sure to run it on this host.

For the Upgrade Backup Directory property, specify a
                    directory in HDFS. This directory must exist and be writable by the Solr service
                    superuser (solr by default). Examples in these procedures use
                        /cr7-solr-upgrade/backup for this HDFS directory.

For the Upgrade Metadata Directory property, specify a
                    directory on the local filesystem of the host you selected as the
                        Solr Server for Upgrade. When you run the migration
                    script, make sure that you copy the migrated configuration to this directory.
                    This directory must also be writable by the Solr service superuser. Examples in
                    these procedures use /cr7-solr-metadata/migrated-config for
                    this local directory.

Enter a Reason for change and then click Save
                        Changes to commit the changes.

Copy the transitioned configuration metadata to the Solr server host designated
                    as Solr Server for Upgrade.

Reinitialize Solr state for upgrade:


In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to Solr service.


Select Actions > Reinitialize Solr State for Upgrade and click Reinitialize Solr State for
                                Upgrade to confirm.



Bootstrap
                    the Solr configuration:


In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to Solr service.


Select Actions > Bootstrap Solr Configuration  and click Bootstrap Solr
                                Configuration to confirm.



Start the Solr service:


In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to Solr service.


Select Actions > Start .



Bootstrap the Solr
                    collections:


In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to Solr service.


Select Actions > Bootstrap Solr Collections  and click Bootstrap Solr
                                Collections to confirm.





Recreate aliases, if you were using
                    them.
Reindex Solr collections.



Parent topic: Post-HDP-upgrade tasks