Why one scheduler?Cloudera Docs
Why one scheduler?
Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) only supports the Capacity Scheduler in the YARN
      clusters.
Prior to the launch of CDP,
            Cloudera customers used one of the two schedulers (Fair
            Scheduler and Capacity Scheduler) depending on which product they
            were using (CDH or HDP respectively).
The choice to converge to one
            scheduler in CDP was a hard one but ultimately rooted in our
            intention to reduce complexity for our customers and at the same
            time help focus our future investments. Over the years, both the
            schedulers have evolved greatly, to the point that Fair Scheduler
            borrowed almost all of the features from Capacity Scheduler and
            vice-versa.  Given this, we ultimately decided to put our
            weight behind Capacity Scheduler for all your YARN
            clusters.
Those clusters that
            currently use the Fair scheduler must migrate to the Capacity
            Scheduler when moving to CDP. Cloudera provides tools,
            documentation, and related help for such migrations.
Benefits of Using Capacity Scheduler
The following are some of the
                  benefits when using Capacity Scheduler:

Integration with
                     Ranger
Node partitioning/labeling
Improvements to schedule on cloud-native
                     environments, such as better bin-packing, autoscaling support, and
                     so on.
Scheduling throughput improvements 
Global Scheduling Framework
Lookup of multiple nodes at one time



                  Fore more details about Scheduling throughput improvements,
                  see Scheduler Performance
                     Improvements.

Affinity/anti-affinity: run application X
                     only on those nodes which run application Y and the other way
                     around. Do not run application X and application Y on the same
                     node.

For information about the currently supported
                  features, see Supported
                     Features.


Parent topic: Comparison of Fair Scheduler with Capacity Scheduler