CDP CLI options for Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
CDP CLI options for Replication Manager
You can use the CDP CLI commands to create, activate, and delete HDFS and Hive
    replication policies.
CDP CLI options
You can use the following CDP CLI options to perform tasks in Replication
    Manager:


CDP CLI option
Description



activate-policy
Resumes the specified suspended HDFS or Hive replication policy. Provide source
                CRN for HDFS replication policies and target CRN for Hive replication
                policies.


collect-diagnostic-bundle
Triggers the diagnostic bundle collection for the specified HDFS or Hive
                replication policy in the target Cloudera Manager.Use the
                    commandId in the command output to download the
                  diagnostic bundle.


create-abfs-credential
Adds a ABFS cloud credentials to use in Replication Manager. importantBefore you register the ABFS cloud
                  credentials in Replication Manager, ensure that you update cloud credentials in
                  the source cluster Cloudera Manager UI. For more information, see Registering ABFS Cloud account in Replication
                    Manager.


create-aws-credential
Adds AWS cloud credentials to use in Replication Manager. importantBefore you add AWS credentials, see Registering Amazon S3 cloud
                  account.


create-policy
Creates an HDFS or Hive replication policy based on the provided parameters.
                Provide source CRN for HDFS replication policies and target CRN for Hive replication
                  policies.importantOnly a non-machine user can
                  run this CDP CLI command. Otherwise, an HTTP 500 error
                  appears.


delete-credential
Deletes the registered credentials from Replication Manager.


delete-policy
Deletes the specified HDFS or Hive replication policy. Provide source CRN for
                HDFS replication policies and target CRN for Hive replication policies.


download-diagnostic-bundle
Generates a bundleFile, a binary string
                in base64 encoded format, as a ZIP file. Run a script to save the response as a file
                to your machine. For example, cat response.json | jq -r ‘.bundleFile’ |
                  base64 -D >
                bundle.zip.The file is generated only if the bundleStatus in the get-command-status command shows DOWNLOADABLE WITH CLI.


get-command-status
Returns the current status of the collect-diagnostic-bundle command. You can
                also view the status of any Cloudera Manager command using the relevant input
                command ID.


get-credentials
Returns the cloud credentials that are available on the specified cluster. If
                you provide the credential name and credential ID, the ID is considered by the CDP
                CLI command.


list-all-credentials
Provides a detailed list of cloud credentials across all clusters that are
                available for Replication Manager.


list-cluster-service-statuses
Provides the current status of the services on all the clusters that
                are available for Replication Manager.


list-clusters

Provides a detailed list of all the clusters that are available for
                  Replication Manager.



list-policies
Lists the available replication policies across all the clusters.
                Enter the source cluster CRN to view the HDFS replication policies and target
                cluster CRN to view all the Hive replication policies.


rerun-policy*
Runs the specified HDFS or Hive replication policy.


suspend-policy
Stops all the replication tasks defined for the HDFS or Hive
                replication policy. Provide source CRN for HDFS replication policies and target CRN
                for Hive replication policies.


update-abfs-credential*
Updates the ABFS cloud credentials.


update-aws-credential*
Updates the AWS cloud credentials for Replication Manager. 


update-policy*
Modifies the HDFS or Hive replication policy. To modify the
                  replication policy, make appropriate changes in the JSON file, save the file, and
                  use it in the update-policy command. Use the
                    rerun-policy command to run the policy.noteSome elements such as cloud credential, source or target
                  cluster, or source dataset cannot be modified. Create another replication policy
                  to use the new values.


*The option is a technical
                preview feature and is not ready for production deployment. The components are
                provided ‘as is’ without warranty or support. Further, Cloudera assumes no liability
                for the use of preview components, which should be used by customers at their own
                risk. For more information, contact your Cloudera account team.



CDP CLI options to create a replication policy
noteOnly a non-machine user can run the replicationmanager
     create-policy CDP CLI command to create a replication policy. 
The following parameters are available in the replicationmanager
     create-policy CDP CLI option:


Parameter
Description



--cluster-crn
Enter the cluster CRN. To determine the cluster CRN, run the
         list-clusters command. Provide the following CRN when
         you create a replication policy:
Source cluster CRN for HDFS replication policy.
Target cluster CRN for Hive replication policy.



--policy-name
Enter a unique name for the replication policy.


--policy-definition
Enter the policy definition in the $(cat [***policy definition
                  file name***]) format, and then enter the cluster CRN and policy name
                as command arguments.


--cli-input-json
Enter the policy definition JSON file path using the
         cat command to read the data from the file to create and run the
        replication policy.


--generate-cli-skeleton
Shows a policy definition template in JSON format. You can copy the output
        of this command to a file, add the required parameters, and save it as a JSON file. You can
        use the filename while creating a replication policy.




Parent topic: CDP CLI for Replication Manager