Fixed Issues in HueCloudera Docs
Fixed Issues in Hue
Review the list of Hue issues that are resolved in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8.


CDPD-20376: New users are not added to the "default" group with
          OIDCBackend
Earlier, new Hue users authenticating using OpenID Connect
          (OIDCBackend) were not added to the "default" Hue group. This issue has been fixed.


CDPD-34241: Line chart visualization not working in Hue
Earlier, Hue displayed a bar chart instead of a line chart on the
            Results tab when you click on the chart icon and try to visualize
          the result in the linear format. This issue has been fixed.


CDPD-18426: "Location" link on the Table Browser page does not
          work
When you click the location link on the Table
            Browser page, Hue now opens the File Browser in a new browser tab which
          displays table details.


CDPD-14904: Hue audit logs are no longer being collected
Cloudera Navigator service was decommissioned in CDP, and you
          could no longer obtain Hue audit logs. This issue has been fixed. You can now collect the
          Hue audit logs from the /var/log/hue/audit.log file. 


CDPD-40785: Export All feature in Hue needs a location to be
          passed but fails to export as the managed table does not accept location
Earlier, exporting query results using the "Export ALL" feature
          used to fail because the managed tables did not accept a location other than the one set
          in Hive. This issue has been fixed.


CDPD-40194: Hue gets AccessDeniedException when creating Phoenix
          SYSTEM tables
When creating Phoenix SYSTEM tables in Hue, you would get an
            AccessDeniedException error in Hue. This issue has been fixed by switching to a
          supported impersonation method for the Phoenix driver.


CDPD-29285: Enable LDAP TLS in Hue configs does not work as
          expected
This issue has been fixed by enforcing Cloudera Manager to set the
            use_start_tls property irrespective of the value in the
            ldap_cert property.


CDPD-25423: Downloaded query logs contain the error.json file, but
          does not fetch container logs
The debug bundles zip file no longer contains the logs. You can
          customize, generate, and view the logs by going to Cloudera Manager > Diagnostics > Logs.


CDPD-18959: Downloading Impala query results containing special
          characters in CSV format fails with ASCII codec error
This issue has been fixed.


Apache Patch Information

HUE-9517
HUE-9496



Parent topic: Fixed issues in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8