What's New in HueCloudera Docs
What's New in Hue
Learn about the new features of Hue in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8.
Security and performance improvements by upgrading to Python 3
Python 2 has reached the end of life and is no longer supported. Hue now uses Python 3
        which makes use of critical bug fixes and Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) fixes
        for many third-party software dependencies. Python libraries have been upgraded from Python
        2.7 to Python 3.8.
Python modules such as django-auth-ldap, django-axes, djangorestframework-simplejwt, Mako,
        Markdown, python-ldap, django-babel, django-mako, django-cors-headers, djangorestframework,
        eventlet, sqlparse, and so on have also been upgraded.
These upgrades bring in significant performance improvement and stability in query
        execution. Operating System, Python version, and Python module upgrades have resulted in a
        more stable environment.
You must install Python 3.8 after installing Cloudera Manager on your cluster. For more
        information, see Installing Python 3.8.
You also need to install Psycopg2 package for PostgreSQL database and MySQL client for
        MySQL and MariaDB databases. For more information, see Installing the psycopg2 Python package for
          PostgreSQL-backed Hue, Installing the MySQL client for MySQL database,
          Installing the MySQL client for MariaDB
        database.
CDP 7.1.8 uses Django version 3.2.13 which supports Oracle Database Server versions 12.2
        and higher and cx_Oracle (the Python interface for Oracle database) versions 6.0 or
        higher.

Hue uses Gunicorn instead of the CherryPy web server
In CDP 7.1.8, Cloudera Manager starts Hue with Gunicorn web server instead of CherryPy.

Hue uses TLS 1.2 by default
On CDP 7.1.8 and higher, Hue and Hue Load Balancer use TLS 1.2 or 1.3 by default. You no
        longer have to configure settings in Cloudera Manager (7.7.1) to enforce TLS 1.2.

High Availability support added for Oracle databases
Hue supports Oracle Real Application Clusters (RAC) on the Oracle database to achieve high
        availability and seamlessly handle SELECT, DDL, and DML operations. For more information,
        see Configuring high availability support for Oracle
          database.

No 64-character restriction on hostnames for Hue roles
Hue supports creating Hue role hostnames of more than 64 characters. There is no longer a
        restriction of 64 characters for the “BalancerMember Route” property.

Hue uses the SHA-256 signing algorithm for SAML authentication
SHA-1 signing algorithm is deprecated in most environments. Hue now uses a stronger, secure
        hash algorithm, SHA-256, for signature and digest methods when authenticating using
        SAML.

Hue uses basic search to look up data in Atlas
Hue polls Atlas for changes to the entities at a set frequency. By default, Hue now uses
        the basic search option to look up data in Atlas which is more efficient than the
        Domain-Specific Language (DSL). DSL queries are resource-intensive and thus expensive. You
        can enable DSL search by setting the search_cluster property in the Advanced Configuration
        Snippet. See Enabling DSL search for Hue.

Update to the list of supported non-ASCII characters
Hue supports an additional set of non-ASCII characters. Review the list: Supported non-ASCII and special characters in
        Hue.

Support for HiveServer2 (HS2) high availability
Hue can now handle HS2 failover using ZooKeeper without setting up a load balancer. You
        must configure the following setting in the Hue Advanced Configuration
        snippet:[beeswax]
hive_discovery_hs2=true
hive_discovery_hiveserver2_znode=/hiveserver2See
          Configuring Hue to handle HS2 failover.

Hue supports rolling restart
Hue service downtime is reduced from more than 30 minutes to approximately 80-90 seconds
        when you restart the CDP cluster in the rolling restart mode. When you restart only the Hue
        service, then Hue’s non-worker roles, such as the load balancer, Kerberos ticket renewer,
        and Hue server restart one after the other. For information about the rolling restart
        options, see Options to restart the Hue service.

Ability to view Hive query details in Hue
Hue packs the combined abilities of Data Analytics Studio (DAS) such as query optimization,
        query debugging framework, and rich query editor experience of Hue, making Hue the next
        generation SQL assistant on CDP. You can search Hive query history, view query details,
        visual explain plan, and DAG information, compare two queries, and download debug bundles
        for troubleshooting from the Job Browser page.
To support this feature, a new service called Query Processor is added to the CDP
        stack as a dependency for Hue. It is used for indexing and retrieving Hive query history and
        query details. You must install the Query Processor service manually on your CDP Private
        Cloud Base clusters. To know more about the Query Processor service, see About Hue Query Processor. For installation
        instructions, see Adding Query Processor service to a cluster.

Hue supports Spark SQL using Apache Livy for Spark 3
Hue supports Spark 3 and Livy for Spark 3. To run Spark SQL queries, you must install the
        Spark 3 and Livy for Spark 3 services on your CDP cluster and then configure these services
        using Cloudera Manager. See Enabling Spark 3 engine in Hue.note

Starting a Livy for Spark 3 session can take from 30 seconds upto a minute. If you
              cancel a running Spark SQL query and rerun it, the Livy for Spark 3 session expires,
              and a new session is created.
Hue does not support PySpark with Livy for Spark 3.



Added Phoenix as a new supported dialect
Apache Phoenix provides a SQL interface to create, access, and query HBase tables using the
        Hue query editor. You can query HBase tables using the Phoenix SQL Data Definition Language
        (DDL) and Data Manipulation Language (DML) commands and grammar. For more information, see
          Enabling the Phoenix SQL editor in Hue.

Hue scripts included in CDP
CDP now includes Hue scripts that you can use for cleaning up old data, setting default
        editors, changing the document owners, and so on. You no longer need to clone the scripts
        from Cloudera’s GitHub repository. For more information, see Using Hue scripts.


Parent topic: What's new in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8