Known Issues in Apache KafkaCloudera Docs
Known Issues in Apache Kafka
Learn about the known issues in Kafka, the impact or changes to the functionality, and
    the workaround.



OPSAPS-59553: SMM's bootstrap server config should be updated
            based on Kafka's listeners

SMM does not show any metrics for Kafka or Kafka Connect when multiple listeners are
              set in Kafka.

SMM cannot identify multiple listeners and still points to
            bootstrap server using the default broker port (9093 for SASL_SSL). You would have to
            override bootstrap server URL (hostname:port as set in the listeners for broker) in the
            following path:Cloudera Manager > SMM > Configuration > Streams Messaging Manager
              Rest Admin Server Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
              streams-messaging-manager.yaml > Save Changes > Restart SMM.




The offsets.topic.replication.factor property must be less than or
              equal to the number of live brokers

            The offsets.topic.replication.factor broker configuration is now
              enforced upon auto topic creation. Internal auto topic creation will fail with a
                GROUP_COORDINATOR_NOT_AVAILABLE error until the cluster size meets
              this replication factor requirement.
          
None




Requests fail when sending to a nonexistent topic with
              auto.create.topics.enable set to true

The first few produce requests fail when sending to a nonexistent
              topic with auto.create.topics.enable set to true.

Increase the number of retries in the producer configuration
            setting retries.




Performance degradation when SSL Is enabled

            In some configuration scenarios, significant performance degradation can occur when
              SSL is enabled. The impact varies depending on your CPU, JVM version, Kafka
              configuration, and message size. Consumers are typically more affected than
              producers.
          
Configure brokers and clients with
              ssl.secure.random.implementation = SHA1PRNG. It often reduces this
            degradation drastically, but its effect is CPU and JVM dependent.




OPSAPS-43236: Kafka garbage collection logs are written to the process
              directory

            By default Kafka garbage collection logs are written to the agent process directory.
              Changing the default path for these log files is currently unsupported.
          
None




RANGER-3809: Idempotent Kafka producer fails to initialize due
            to an authorization failure
 Kafka producers that have idempotence enabled require the
            Idempotent Write permission to be set on the cluster resource in Ranger. If permission
            is not given, the client fails to initialize and an error similar to the following is
            thrown:
            org.apache.kafka.common.KafkaException: Cannot execute transactional method because we are in an error state
    at org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.internals.TransactionManager.maybeFailWithError(TransactionManager.java:1125)
    at org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.internals.TransactionManager.maybeAddPartition(TransactionManager.java:442)
    at org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.KafkaProducer.doSend(KafkaProducer.java:1000)
    at org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.KafkaProducer.send(KafkaProducer.java:914)
    at org.apache.kafka.clients.producer.KafkaProducer.send(KafkaProducer.java:800)
    .
    .
    .
Caused by: org.apache.kafka.common.errors.ClusterAuthorizationException: Cluster authorization failed.
Idempotence
            is enabled by default for clients in Kafka 3.0.1, 3.1.1, and any version after 3.1.1.
            This means that any client updated to 3.0.1, 3.1.1, or any version after 3.1.1 is
            affected by this issue.
This issue has two workarounds, do either of the following:
Explicitly disable idempotence for the producers. This can be done by setting
                  enable.idempotence to false.
Update your policies in Ranger and ensure that producers have Idempotent Write
                permission on the cluster resource.



CDPD-45183: Kafka Connect active topics might be visible to
            unauthorised users
The Kafka Connect active topics endpoint
                (/connectors/[***CONNECTOR NAME***]/topics) and
            the Connect Cluster page on the SMM UI disregard the user permissions configured for the
            Kafka service in Ranger. As a result, all active topics of connectors might become
            visible to users who do not have permissions to view them. Note that user permission
            configured for Kafka Connect in Ranger are not affected by this issue and are correctly
            applied.
None.


CFM-2966: Stateless NiFi connectors do not work with Java
            Runtime Environment 9 or later

Stateless NiFi connectors cannot be deployed if you are using Java Runtime
              Environment (JRE) 9 or later. This issue affects the Stateless NiFi Source
                (StatelessNiFiSinkConnector) and Stateless NiFi Sink
                (StatelessNiFiSourceConnector) connectors as well as all
              Cloudera developed connectors based on Stateless NiFi Source and Sink connectors.
              Click Show to view the full list of affected connectors.
HTTP Source
JDBC Source
JMS Source
MQTT Source
SFTP Source
Stateless NiFi Source
Syslog TCP Source
Syslog UDP Source
ADLS Sink
HDFS Stateless Sink
HTTP Sink
InfluxDB Sink
JDBC Sink
Kudu Sink
S3 Sink
Stateless NiFi Sink

This issue does not affect clusters that have a supported version of Java Development
              Kit (JDK) installed. For more information on supported versions, see Java Requirements or the Cloudera
                Support Matrix.

Cloudera recommends that you use a supported version of
            JDK instead of JRE. Alternatively, you can also install Java 8 (JDK or JRE) in addition
            to the JRE version you are using and configure Kafka Connect to use Java 8. This can be
            done by completing the following steps:
Create a new directory for the Java installation. The directory must be in a
                different location than the default Java directory on your cluster hosts, and it
                must be readable and executable by everyone. For
                example:mkdir -m 755 /usr/java8Do this on
                all cluster hosts.
Download Java 8 and extract it to the directory you created. Assume you downloaded
                and extracted jdk8u345-b01: /usr/java8/jdk8u345-b01. Make sure it
                is readable and executable by everyone:
                chmod 755 /usr/java8/jdk8u345-b01 Do this
                on all cluster hosts.
In Cloudera Manager, go to
                    Kafka > Configuration.
Find the Java Home Path Override property and add the
                location of the Java installation. For
                example:/usr/java8/jdk8u345-b01
Click Save Changes.
Restart the Kafka service.



CDPD-29307: Kafka producer entity stays in incomplete state in
            Atlas
Atlas creates incomplete Kafka client entities that are
            postfixed with the metadata namespace.
None


CDPD-49304: AvroConverter does not support composite default
            values
AvroConverter cannot handle schemas containing a
              STRUCT type default value.
None.


CDPD-53179: Amazon S3 sink connector fails when buffer size is
            reached 
If there is more than 5 MB (buffer size) of data available in a
            Kafka source topic and the connector receives more than 5 MB of data in a single poll,
            the connector tries to upload all the data as a multipart upload to S3. The upload,
            however, fails.
Decrease the Offset Flush Interval
            Kafka service property. Decreasing the value of this property increases how frequently
            connectors commit data. If the connectors commit more frequently, each commit will
            contain less data. Cloudera advises caution if you decide to change the value of this
            property because:
The interval you configure is applied to all Kafka Connect connectors.
Decreasing the interval might result in an increased number of files created in
                S3.


OPSAPS-64606: Authorization issues if Kafka Connect is not installed
A Ranger policy (connect internal - topic) is
            generated by default on fresh installations. If a Kafka Connect role is not present on
            the cluster, a the policy is  created with an empty topic include list. This policy
            could cause problems with Kafka topics.
Delete the policy or add the following names to the topic
            include list:
connect-configs
connect-offsets
connecto-status
connect-secrets

CDPD-45958: Kafka client JAAS override policy validation is incorrect
The JAAS override filter policy refuses configurations if the
            configuration contains an unknown field instead of only refusing based on known fields
            with invalid values.
None

CDPD-48822: AvroConverter ignores default values when converting
            from Avro to Connect schema
AvroConverter does not propagate field default values when
            converting Avro schemas to Connect schemas.
None



Unsupported Features




The following Kafka features are not supported in Cloudera Data Platform:
Only Java and .Net based clients are supported. Clients developed with C, C++,
                  Python, and other languages are currently not supported.
The Kafka default authorizer is not supported. This includes setting ACLs and
                  all related APIs, broker functionality, and command-line tools.





Limitations



Collection of Partition Level Metrics May Cause Cloudera Manager’s Performance to
              Degrade

If the Kafka service operates with a large number of partitions, collection of
                partition level metrics may cause Cloudera Manager's performance to degrade.
If you are observing performance degradation and your cluster is operating with a
                high number of partitions, you can choose to disable the collection of partition
                level metrics. important If you are using SMM to monitor Kafka or
                  Cruise Control for rebalancing Kafka partitions, be aware that both SMM and Cruise
                  Control rely on partition level metrics. If partition level metric collection is
                  disabled, SMM will not be able to display information about partitions. In
                  addition, Cruise Control will not operate properly. 
Complete the following steps to  turn off the collection of partition level metrics:
Obtain the Kafka service name:
In Cloudera Manager, Select the Kafka service.
Select any available chart, and select Open in Chart Builder
                        from the configuration icon drop-down.
Find $SERVICENAME= near the top of the display.The
                          Kafka service name is the value of
                        $SERVICENAME.

Turn off the collection of partition level metrics:
Go to Hosts > Hosts
                            Configuration.
Find and configure the Cloudera Manager Agent Monitoring
                          Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) configuration
                          property.Enter the following to turn off the collection of partition
                          level
                          metrics:[KAFKA_SERVICE_NAME]_feature_send_broker_topic_partition_entity_update_enabled=false
Replace
                            [KAFKA_SERVICE_NAME] with the service name of Kafka
                          obtained in step 1. The service name should always be in lower
                        case.
Click Save Changes.








Parent topic: Known issues in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8