Known Issues in Apache AtlasCloudera Docs
Known Issues in Apache Atlas
Learn about the known issues in Atlas, the impact or changes to the functionality, and
    the workaround. 


CDPD-43058: Entities created through Hook do not get consumed by Atlas and are specifically observed while running the HDFS Lineage script.
Once the process to run the hdfs-lineage.sh
          script is completed, it is seen that in a few instances the entity is not created in
          Atlas. This scenario is observed on an intermittent basis and few entities are not viewed
          in Atlas. In the case where this issue is observed, the publishing of messages to Kafka
          topics consumes more than three seconds.
This additional time consumption could be because of:
        
Logging into Kerberos took more time to complete
Connecting to Kafka topic took more than three seconds

The Async message processing
          (atlas.notification.hook.asynchronous) must be disabled. You must manually set this
            flag in /etc/atlas/conf/atlas-application.properties to
              false.



CDPD-50239: The 'ATLAS_ENTITY_AUDIT_EVENTS' table increases its
          size considerably causing the disk space to shrink to a larger extent. 
There are certain columns of the tables that are not
          configured to remove the old data that can cause disk to run out of space. For more
          information, see the section Audit enhancements in the mainline Atlas
          documentation for 7.1.8 version.


CDPD-29307: Atlas creates incomplete Kafka client entities that
          are postfixed with the metadata namespace.
None.


CDPD-19358: "IsIndexable"and "isOptional" value of a typedef's attribute is modified post migration.
None.


CDPD-22799: Apache Atlas displays 503 service unavailable on transparent proxy setup.
In the following file
            /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH-<%version%>/lib/atlas/server/webapp/atlas/WEB-INF/web.xml
          delete DOCTYPE tag, and replace web-app tag with following:
            <web-app xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee
            http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee/web-app_2_5.xsd" version="2.5">


OPSAPS-58348: The user name HTTP is not found in Atlas logs
You must disable the Atlas metrics configuration from Cloudera Manager UI.


CDPD-19996: Atlas AWS S3 metadata extractor fails when High Availability is configured for IDBroker.
If you have the HA configured for IDBroker, ensure that your cluster has only one IDBroker address in core-site.xml. If your cluster has two IDBroker addresses in core-site.xml, remove one of them, and the extractor must be able to retrieve the token from IDBroker.


CDPD-5542: AWS S3 Bulk and Incremental Extraction is currently not supported on 7.1.5.
 None.


CDPD-17355: Atlas AWS extraction issue due to KeyError: 'entities'.
AWS S3 extraction does not happen as the extractor.sh is missing from the host.
 None.


CDPD-14877:
In the Ozone Atlas integration, only the Spark-Atlas connector is failing.
Running the Spark query through the Ozone path, an incomplete entity is created.


CDPD-12668: Navigator Spark lineage can fail to render in Atlas
As part of content conversion from Navigator to Atlas, the
          conversion of some spark applications created a cyclic lineage
          reference in Atlas, which the Atlas UI fails to render. The cases
          occur when a Spark application uses data from a table and updates the
          same table. 
 None.


CDPD-11941: Table creation events missed when multiple tables are
          created in the same Hive command
When multiple Hive tables are created in the same database in a
          single command, the Atlas audit log for the database may not capture
          all the table creation events. When there is a delay between creation
          commands, audits are created as expected. 
 None.


CDPD-11940: Database audit record misses table delete
When a hive_table entity is created, the Atlas audit list for the
          parent database includes an update audit. However, at this time, the
          database does not show an audit when the table is deleted. 
 None.


CDPD-11790: Simultaneous events on the Kafka topic queue can produce
          duplicate Atlas entities
In normal operation, Atlas receives metadata to create entities from
          multiple services on the same or separate Kafka topics. In some
          instances, such as for Spark jobs, metadata to create a table entity
          in Atlas is triggered from two separate messages: one for the Spark
          operation and a second for the table metadata from HMS. If the process
          metadata arrives before the table metadata, Atlas creates a temporary
          entity for any tables that are not already in Atlas and reconciles the
          temporary entity with the HMS metadata when the table metadata
          arrives.
However, in some cases such as when Spark SQL queries with the
            write.saveAsTable function, Atlas does not
          reconcile the temporary and final table metadata, resulting in two
          entities with the same qualified name and no lineage linking the table
          to the process entity. 
This issue is not seen for other lineage queries from spark:
          create table default.xx3 as select * from default.xx2
insert into yy2 select * from yy
insert overwrite table ww2 select * from ww1
Another case where this behavior may occur is when many REST API
          requests are sent at the same time. 
 None.


CDPD-11692: Navigator table creation time not converted to
          Atlas
In converting content from Navigator to Atlas, the create time for
          Hive tables is not moved to Atlas. 
 None.


CDPD-11338: Cluster names with upper case letters may appear in
          lower case in some process names
Atlas records the cluster name as lower case in
            qualifiedNames for some process names. The result
          is that the cluster name may appear in lower case for some processes
          (insert overwrite table) while it appears in upper case for other
          queries (ctas) performed on the same cluster. 
 None.


CDPD-10576: Deleted Business Metadata attributes appear in Search
          Suggestions
Atlas search suggestions continue to show Business Metadata
          attributes even if the attributes have been deleted. 
 None.


CDPD-10574: Suggestion order doesn't match search weights
At this time, the order of search suggestions does not honor the
          search weight for attributes.
 None.


CDPD-9095: Duplicate audits for renaming Hive tables
Renaming a Hive table results in duplicate ENTITY_UPDATE events in
          the corresponding Atlas entity audits, both for the table and for its
          columns. 
 None.


CDPD-7982: HBase bridge stops at HBase table with deleted column
          family
Bridge importing metadata from HBase fails when it encounters an
          HBase table for which a column family was previously dropped. The
          error indicates:
          Metadata service API org.apache.atlas.AtlasClientV2$API_V2@58112bc4 failed with status 404 (Not Found) Response Body 
({""errorCode"":""ATLAS-404-00-007"",""errorMessage"":""Invalid instance creation/updation parameters passed : 
hbase_column_family.table: mandatory attribute value missing in type hbase_column_family""}) 
 None.


CDPD-7781: TLS certificates not validated on Firefox
Atlas is not checking for valid TLS certificates when the UI is
          opened in FireFox browsers. 
 None.


CDPD-6675: Irregular qualifiedName format for Azure storage
The qualifiedName for hdfs_path entities created
          from Azure blog locations (ABFS) doesn't have the clusterName appended
          to it as do hdfs_path entities in other location
          types. 
 None.


CDPD-5933, CDPD-5931: Unexpected Search Results When Using Regular
          Expressions in Basic Searches on Classifications
When you include a regular expression or wildcard in the search
          criteria for a classification in the Basic Search, the results may
          differ unexpectedly from when full classification names are included.
          For example, the Exclude sub-classifications
          option is respected when using a full classification name as the
          search criteria; when using part of the classification name and the
          wildcard (*) with Exclude sub-classifications
          turned off, entities marked with sub-classifications are not included
          in the results. Other instances of unexpected results include
          case-sensitivity.
 None.


CDPD-4762: Spark metadata order may affect lineage
Atlas may record unexpected lineage relationships when metadata
          collection from the Spark Atlas Connector occurs out of sequence from
          metadata collection from HMS. For example, if an ALTER TABLE operation
          in Spark changing a table name and is reported to Atlas before HMS has
          processed the change, Atlas may not show the correct lineage
          relationships to the altered table. 
 None.


CDPD-4545: Searches for Qualified Names with "@" doesn't fetch the
          correct results
When searching Atlas qualifiedName values that include an "at"
          character (@), Atlas does not return the expected results or generate
          appropriate search suggestions. 
 Consider leaving out the portion of the search
          string that includes the @ sign, using the wildcard character *
          instead.


CDPD-3208: Table alias values are not found in search
When table names are changed, Atlas keeps the old name of the table
          in a list of aliases. These values are not included in the search
          index in this release, so after a table name is changed, searching on
          the old table name will not return the entity for the table.
 None.


CDPD-3160: Hive lineage missing for INSERT OVERWRITE queries
Lineage is not generated for Hive INSERT OVERWRITE queries on
          partitioned tables. Lineage is generated as expected for CTAS queries
          from partitioned tables.
 None.


CDPD-3125: Logging out of Atlas does not manage the external
          authentication
At this time, Atlas does not communicate a log-out event with the
          external authentication management, Apache Knox. When you log out of
          Atlas, you can still open the instance of Atlas from the same web
          browser without re-authentication. 
 To prevent access to Atlas after logging out,
          close all browser windows and exit the browser.


CDPD-1892: Ranking of top results in free-text search not
          intuitive
The Free-text search feature ranks results based on which attributes
          match the search criteria. The attribute ranking is evolving and
          therefore the choice of top results may not be intuitive in this
          release.
 If you don't find what you need in the top 5
          results, use the full results or refine the search.


 CDPD-1884: Free text search in Atlas is case sensitive
The free text search bar in the top of the screen allows you to
          search across entity types and through all text attributes for all
          entities. The search shows the top 5 results that match the search
          terms at any place in the text (*term* logic). It also shows
          suggestions that match the search terms that begin with the term
          (term* logic). However, in this release, the search results are
          case-sensitive.
 If you don't see the results you expect, repeat
          the search changing the case of the search terms.


CDPD-1823: Queries with ? wildcard return unexpected results
DSL queries in Advanced Search return incorrect results when the
          query text includes a question mark (?) wildcard character. This
          problem occurs in environments where trusted proxy for Knox is
          enabled, which is always the case for CDP.
 None.


CDPD-1664: Guest users are redirected incorrectly
Authenticated users logging in to Atlas are redirected to the CDP
          Knox-based login page. However, if a guest user (without Atlas
          privileges) attempts to log in to Atlas, the user is redirected
          instead to the Atlas login page. 
 To avoid this problem, open the Atlas Dashboard
          in a private or incognito browser window.


CDPD-922: IsUnique relationship attribute not honored
The Atlas model includes the ability to ensure that an attribute can
          be set to a specific value in only one relationship entity across the
          cluster metadata. For example, if you wanted to add metadata tags to
          relationships that you wanted to make sure were unique in the system,
          you could design the relationship attribute with the property
          "IsUnique" equal true. However, in this release, the IsUnique
          attribute is not enforced.
 None.


OPSAPS-58720: Atlas HBase hook not enabled post migration to
          CDH
Using the AM2CM tool for HDP-2 to CDP-7, post-migration, you must
          manually enable the Atlas HBase hook.


OPSAPS-58784: HMS hook is not enabled by default
Using the AM2CM tool for HDP-2 to CDP-7, post-migration, you must
          manually enable the Atlas HMS hook.

CDPD-23776: When a HBase table is dropped, the relationship between the table and
          namespace is displayed as ACTIVE
When the HBase table is disabled and dropped, the table status is marked DELETED but the
          relationship status between table and namespace is still ACTIVE. 
CDPD-23587: hbase_namespace owner is updated to user who creates the HBase table
Owner of the HBase namespace must not be modified based on users' who create the table
          under it. 
CDPD-22484: DML statements like "insert" and "delete" are captured by Atlas
Extra audits are generated by Atlas for DML statements on tables like insert and delete
          values on the table. 
CDPD-27390: [Entity Audits] 'Propagated Classification Added' timestamp is < 'Entity
          Created' timestamp
The 'Propagated Classification Added' timestamp is < 'Entity
          Created' timestamp. This is invalid since the classification is propagated once the entity
          is created.
CDPD-28026: [Atlas: Debug Metrics] Debug metrics is empty on cluster with Custom
          Principal
Debug metrics is fetched 30 seconds after an operation is performed. Later, there are no
          debug metrics available.
CDPD-39427: [HDFS Lineage]: When the input is a directory in case of
          put/copyfromLocal/cp/mv commands, lineage is not created even though the script succeeds. 

When Source is a directory and target is a directory which is already present in Atlas,
            the command succeeds and inserts the data in the desired location, but lineage is not
            created.

DOCS-13759: Tag Propagation stops after a certain depth while the lineage is being
          extended 

When a tag is added to an entity at timestamp T1, the entities along the lineage to
            which the tag must be propagated is calculated at T1. Before tag propagation completes,
            if the lineage is extended, tag does not propagate to the entities in the extended
            lineage.

DOCS-13760: System Attributes search, __classificationNames: Search with parent tag
          doesn't return entities associated to its children tags 

System attribute search with __classificationNames = parent_tag returns entities
            associated to parent_tag only not not entities associated to its children tag.

Workaround: Instead of using system attribute, employ the basic search attribute
            "classification" which lists entities associated with inherited
          classifications.
CDPD-39576: [Hive import version 2] While importing with Hive import V2, exceptions are
          seen in the logs for successful imports 


Disabled Hive hook
Created a database
Called the import v2 API by passing -o to
                import-hive.sh

The above step will create the ZIP file and also import the data 

Though the import is successful, errors are seen in the logs.

CDPD-39599: [Hive import v2] When importing table with large columns using the version
          V2, java.net.SocketTimeoutException is thrown and import fails

The import Hive version 2 faces the timeout issue. The import data takes more time at
            Atlas server and the configuration timeout at client is lesser than the total time taken
            by server import (Although the import operation at server is successful).

CDPD-41142: When a Kafka console consumer group is run, more than one update audits are
          seen

After running the console consumer with a consumer group, verify the consumer group
            entity created, along with the metrics and notifications for the consumer group and
            topic. The expected result would be: one ENTITY_CREATE audit and one
              ENTITY_UPDATE audit. But more than one ENTITY_UPDATE
            audits are seen.

CDPD-40165: Two audits are created for SPARK CTAS table

When following Spark queries are fired:
spark.sql("create table table1(id int)")
spark.sql("create table table2 as select * from table1")
HMS sends "ENTITY_CREATE" and
            "ENTITY_FULL_UPDATE_V2". 


The extra ENTITY_FULL_UPDATE_V2 message received from HMS is sent as
            part of ALTERTABLE_ADDCOLS event from the HMS Hook side. This behaviour
            is observed only when the queries are run from Spark SQL and not when run from the same
            queries from Beeline.

CDPD-39197: Debug metrics returns empty data

When debug metrics is enabled and some operations are performed, the response is
            empty.

CDPD-36495: Updating legacyAttribute from False to True resets the initially created
          relationshipAttributes values
Creating types, entities, and relationship with is_legacy_attribute
          initially set to FalseLater, update the relationshipDef to have
              is_legacy_attribute to TrueFor the entities that were created
            before updating the is_legacy_attribute to True,
              relationshipAttributes value is reset.
CDPD-35818: Basic search with tag filter provides approximateCount as -1 when there is
          no match and is 0 otherwise 

When the following search operations are performed:
Faceted search with both tag filter and entity filter
The observed approximateCount is -1.
Here both entity filter and tag filter are present and when there is no match the
            response received is -1.
Faceted search with only entity filter
Performing a basic search provides an approximate value of 0 when there is no match
Faceted search with only tag filter
Whenever there is tag filter in the query and there is no entity match, the
              approximateCount is -1 and if the tag
            filter is not available, the response approximateCount is
              0

CDPD-13466: Bulk create/update entity POST API does not create / update authorised
          entities 

The bulk API fails with 403 error if some  belong to entities on which user is
              unauthorized and other GUIDs belong to entities on which user is
              authorized.

CDPD-22744: Bulk entity DELETE API does not delete authorised entities 

Bulk entity DELETE API does not delete authorised entities when the list of authorised
            and unauthorised entities list is passed.

CDPD-31728: For database creation, there are two update audits instead of one create and
          one update 

The behavior is inconsistent. The order of the published messages is as such that first
            HMS message (Entity Create Event) is created and later HS2 message (Entity Update
            Event). Atlas received messages from Hive hook in reverse order which is first the HS2
            message and later HMS.

CDPD-29409: Hive import: Suggestion suggests entity which is deleted 

Suggestions suggests tables of database, which is a deleted entity.

CDPD-25152: Tag propagation through deferred actions consumes additional time as
          compared to default flow

The additional time might be due to the small overhead added to create / update task
            vertex and which run it in the background. This also depends on number of tasks queued
            to be executed in tasks.

CDPD-42954: Zepplin notebook fails after enabling Atlas-HDFS hook

The zeppelin notebooks are failing with errors after enabling Atlas-HDFS hook in the
            CDP cluster. 
When the below properties are set for atlas-client.properties in
            Cloudera Manager: 
atlas.jaas.KafkaClient.option.keyTab
atlas.jaas.KafkaClient.option.principal
 Along with adding the properties in
              /etc/atlas/conf/atlas-application.properties, Cloudera Manager also
            adds these properties to atlas-application.properties for other
            services (like Spark).
 Adding these properties interferes with the normal flow of the services (like
            Spark)

Workaround: To enable HDFS lineage feature, instead of setting these properties
          through CM,user can manually add the properties directly in
            /etc/atlas/conf/atlas-application.properties


Parent topic: Known issues in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8