What's New in Apache Hadoop YARN and YARN Queue ManagerCloudera Docs
What's New in Apache Hadoop YARN and YARN Queue Manager
Learn about the new features of YARN and YARN Queue Manager in Cloudera Runtime
        7.1.8
Apache Hadoop YARN
There are no new features for Apache Hadoop YARN in this release of Cloudera
                Runtime.

YARN Queue Manager


Dynamic Queue Scheduling 

Dynamic Queue Scheduling is now generally available and can
                                be used in production environments. This is the result of multiple
                                changes, improvements, and new features such as Dynamic
                                Configuration revalidation and execution logs. 
For more information, see Dynamic Queue
                                Scheduling.

Queue priority

Setting queue priorities is now supported by the YARN Queue Manager
                                UI. By setting queue priorities you can ensure that applications can
                                access cluster resources. This is especially important in the case
                                of Hive LLAP, long-running applications, and applications that
                                require large containers. For more information about the Dynamic
                                Queue Scheduling feature, see Setting queue
                                priorities.

Setting Maximum Parallel Application Limits

You can set the maximum number of applications limits for all queues,
                                all users, and at the user level. The maximum parallel application
                                limit is inherited from the “root” queue level and is lowered down
                                in the queue hierarchy. The limit is checked in the queue hierarchy
                                and the lowest value is applied as the limit.
For more information, see Setting Maximum Parallel
                                    Application.

Editing placement rules

Support to edit previously created placement rules was added.
For more information, see Editing placement
                                rules.

Refresh queues option in Queue Manager UI

A Refresh button was added to the Overview tab in the YARN
                                Queue Manager UI which provides the functionality to refresh the
                                queues on demand.

Configuring the the capacity and max capacity of root queue in absolute
                            mode

Support to configure memory/vcores and maximum
                                memory/vcores for the root queue in absolute resource allocation
                                mode is added. They can be set using the YARN Queue Manager UI.
For more information, see Configuring the resource capacity
                                    of root queue in absolute mode.

New YARN Queue Manager Overview Page

The new YARN Queue Manager Overview
                                page has a new improved User Interface (UI) with the following new
                                features: 
Minimap: The Overview page now has a minimap of the queue
                                        structure. It shows the whole queue structure even if you
                                        zoom in to a specific part of it. 
Refresh: You can click the Refresh icon for in-screen
                                        refresh of the page. 
Zoom and Panning : You can use the mouse to zoom in and zoom
                                        out on the screen to view the queue structure. You can also
                                        drag the queue structure to see different parts of the
                                        structure. 
Tool Tip: You can hover on the queue name for information
                                        like queue name and its queue path, queue status, and
                                        capacity. Previously, only the queue name and its path was
                                        displayed.






Parent topic: What's new in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8