Known issues in Streams Messaging ManagerCloudera Docs
Known issues in Streams Messaging Manager
Learn about the known issues in Streams Messaging Manager, the impact or changes to
        the functionality, and the workaround.


OPSAPS-59597: SMM UI logs are not supported by Cloudera Manager
Cloudera Manager does not display a Log
                        Files menu for SMM UI role (and SMM UI logs cannot be displayed
                    in the Cloudera Manager UI) because the logging type used by SMM UI is not
                    supported by Cloudera Manager. 
View the SMM UI logs on the host.


OPSAPS-59553: SMM's bootstrap server config should be updated based on Kafka's
                    listeners
SMM does not show any metrics for Kafka or Kafka Connect
                    when multiple listeners are set in Kafka. 
SMM cannot identify multiple listeners and still points to bootstrap
                    server using the default broker port (9093 for SASL_SSL). You would have to
                    override bootstrap server URL (hostname:port as set in the listeners for
                    broker). Add the bootstrap server details in SMM safety valve in the following
                        path:Cloudera Manager > SMM > Configuration > Streams Messaging Manager
                        Rest Admin Server Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                        streams-messaging-manager.yaml > Add the following value for bootstrap
                        servers>Save Changes > Restart
                        SMM.streams.messaging.manager.kafka.bootstrap.servers=<comma-separated list of brokers>


CDPD-45183: Kafka Connect active topics might be visible to
          unauthorised users
The Kafka Connect active topics endpoint
              (/connectors/[***CONNECTOR NAME***]/topics) and
          the Connect Cluster page on the SMM UI disregard the user permissions configured for the
          Kafka service in Ranger. As a result, all active topics of connectors might become visible
          to users who do not have permissions to view them. Note that user permission configured
          for Kafka Connect in Ranger are not affected by this issue and are correctly applied.
None.


CDPD-46728: SMM UI shows the consumerGroup instead of the
                    instances on the Profile page's right hand side
On the ConsumerGroupDetail page, SMM UI shows the group
                    instead of its instances on the right hand side table.
None.


CDPD-47836: The FROM OFFSET field of the offset slider in
                    Data Explorer does not update on partition change
When changing the partition on the Data
                        Explorer tab of a topic, the FROM OFFSET
                    field of the offset slider is not updated to reflect the first offset of the
                    newly selected partition. If the first offset of the newly selected partition
                    differs from the previous one, the application throws an error. This issue only
                    affects the Data Explorer tab, which is accessed from the
                    topic details page of a topic. This issue does not affect the Data
                        Explorer modal window, which is accessed by clicking  next to the name of a topic.
After selecting a new partition, refresh the page.
                    Alternatively, use the Data Explorer modal window.


Limitations


CDPD-36422: 1MB flow.snapshot freezes Safari
While importing large connector configurations,
                        flow.snapshots reduces the usability of the Streams Messaging Manager when
                        using Safari browser. 
Use a different browser (Chrome/Firefox/Edge).
                    




Parent topic: Known issues in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8