Fixed Issues in Streams Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Fixed Issues in Streams Replication Manager
 Review the list of Streams Replication Manager issues that are resolved in Cloudera
    Runtime 7.1.8. 


OPSAPS-61278: The SRM Client’s secure storage fails to generate
          correctly in FIPS-enabled clusters
In a FIPS enabled cluster, the SRM Client’s secure storage is now
          correctly generated. The automatically generated configuration used by the
            srm-control tool no longer contains unresolvable references. SRM secure
          storage can be used in FIPS enabled clusters without additional configuration.


CDPD-31745: SRM Control fails to configure internal topic when
          target is earlier than Kafka 2.3
SRM now creates all internal topics explicitly. SRM also verifies
          the essential configurations of internal topics at startup, and fails if the topic does
          not meet the required configurations.


OPSAPS-60823: Configuring the SRM Client's secure storage is
          mandatory for unsecured environments
The srm-control tool  no longer fails to run in
          an unsecured cluster. Unnecessary additional configs have been removed from the
            srm-control tool's configuration when it is used in an unsecured
          cluster.


OPSAPS-61001: Saving configuration changes for SRM is not
          possible
The SRM Client's Secure Storage Password property is no longer a
          mandatory property.


CDPD-14019: SRM may automatically re-create deleted topics on
          source clusters
Deleted topics are no longer automatically re-created on source
          clusters.


OPSAPS-61814: Using the service dependency method to define
          Kerberos enabled co-located clusters is not supported
When the Streams Replication Manager Co-located Kafka
            Cluster Alias configuration is used to auto-configure the connection to the
          co-located Kafka cluster, and Kerberos is enabled, the JAAS configuration is dynamically
          generated on each host. As a result, you can now use the service dependency method to
          define a Kerberos enabled co-located cluster.


OPSAPS-63992: Rolling restart unavailable for SRM
Streams Replication Manager rolling restart support is added to
          Cloudera Manager, Streams Replication Manager can be restarted and upgraded without losing
          service availability.


OPSAPS-62546: Kafka External Account SSL keypassword configuration
          is used incorrectly by SRM
SRM uses the correct ssl.keystore.key
          configuration when a Kafka External Account specifies the keystore.



Parent topic: Fixed issues in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8