Managing virtual clustersCloudera Docs
Managing virtual clusters
You can view configuration, metrics, and logs for existing virtual clusters. You can
    also view jobs associated with a cluster, clone a cluster, and delete a cluster
importantThe user interface for
      CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy access to
      commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example, the
        Overview page has been replaced with the Home
      page. The new home page still displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links
      located at the top for the following categories: Jobs,
        Resources, and Download & Docs.
To view cluster details:

In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) management console, click the Data
          Engineering tile and click Overview.

In the CDE Services column, select the environment containing the
          virtual cluster you want to manage.
In the Virtual Clusters column on the right, click the
            Cluster Details icon for the virtual cluster you want to
          manage.
On the Configuration tab, you can view details about the cluster,
        including the cluster name, CDP environment, and the CPU and memory auto-scale ranges. You
        can modify the virtual cluster quotas (CPU/memory) dynamically. CDE provides an
          Edit option to make the configuration changes dynamically which may
        take a few minutes to update. 

The virtual cluster Overview page provides details about the virtual
      cluster, and includes links to several resources, such as the API documentation, and the Jobs
      API URL. You can switch between the following three tabs to view additional information:

Configuration
The Configuration tab lists details about the cluster, including
          the cluster name, CDP environment, and the CPU and memory auto-scale ranges.  You can
          modify the virtual cluster quotas (CPU/memory) dynamically. CDE provides an
            Edit option to make the configuration changes dynamically which
          may take a few mintutes to update.
Charts
The Charts tab displays charts of virtual cluster metrics, such
          as network and filesystem usage.noteIf your browser blocks
            third-party cookies, Charts may not display correctly. If this
            happens, add *.cloudera.com as an exception in your browser
            settings.
Logs
The Logs tab displays the latest log entries for the virtual
          cluster.


Related informationEditing virtual clusters