Creating virtual clustersCloudera Docs
Creating virtual clusters
In Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), a virtual cluster is an
    individual auto-scaling cluster with defined CPU and memory ranges. Jobs are
    associated with virtual clusters, and virtual clusters are associated with
    an environment. You can create as many virtual clusters as you
    need.

importantThe user interface for
        CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy access
        to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly CDE version prior to 1.17, for
        example, the Overview page has been replaced with the
          Home page. The new Home page still displays
        Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links located at the top for the following
        categories: Jobs, Resources, and
          Download & Docs.
To create a virtual cluster, you must have an environment with Cloudera
        Data Engineering (CDE) enabled.


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the
            Data Engineering tile. The CDE Home page
          displays.

Click Administration in the left navigation menu, select the
          environment you want to create a virtual cluster in.

In the Virtual Clusters column, click  at the top right to create a
          new virtual cluster.
If the environment has no virtual clusters associated with it, the page displays a
            Create DE Cluster button that launches the same wizard.


Enter a Cluster Name.
Cluster names must include the following:
Begin with a letter
Be between 3 and 30 characters (inclusive)
Contain only alphanumeric characters and hyphens


Select the Service to create the virtual cluster in.
The environment you selected before launching the wizard is selected by default, but
          you can use the wizard to create a virtual cluster in a different CDE service.

Select one of the following CDE cluster types: 

noteThese tiers are available in CDE 1.19 and above only.

Core (Tier 1): Batch-based transformation and engineering
              options include:
Autoscaling Cluster
Spot Instances
SDX/Lakehouse
Job Lifecycle
Monitoring
Workflow Orchestration

All Purpose (Tier 2) - Develop using interactive sessions and
              deploy both batch and streaming workloads. This option includes all options in Tier 1
              with the following:
Shell Sessions - CLI and Web
JDBC/SparkSQL (Coming soon)
IDE (Coming Soon)




Select the Spark Version to use in the virtual cluster. You
          cannot use Spark 2 and Spark 3 in the same virtual cluster, but you can have separate
          Spark 2 and Spark 3 virtual clusters within the same CDE service. You can use multiple
          Spark 3.x in your virtual cluster.
Use the Auto-Scale Max Capacity sliders
          to set the maximum number of CPU cores and the maximum memory in
          gigabytes. The cluster will scale up and down as needed to run the
          submitted Spark applications.
Optional for spot instances enabled at the CDE service level:
          From the Driver and Executors will run on drop-down menu, select
          whether you want to run drivers and executors on spot instances or on-demand instances. By
          default, the driver runs on on-demand instances, and the executors run on spot instances.
          For SLA-bound workloads, select On-demand. For non-SLA workloads,
          Cloudera recommends leaving the default configuration to take advantage of the cost
          savings afforded by spot instances. For more information, see Cloudera Data Engineering Spot Instances.
Optional: 
Click Enable Remote Shuffle Service (Technical Preview) if you
          want to store Spark shuffle data on remote servers. Usage of Remote Shuffle Service (RSS)
          improves resilience in the case of executor loss and it allows to run jobs with regular
          Dynamic Allocation (without shuffle tracking). It may also decrease the job execution time
          depending on the number of RSS instances.

noteRemote Shuffle Service feature is supported
            only on Amazon Web Services.



Override Instances: Click to override the recommended RSS
              instances for this virtual cluster.
The recommended number of RSS instances: the recommendation on a number of RSS
              instances for a virtual cluster is according to the defined virtual cluster CPU quota.
              This number is obtained according to the RSS performance testing results. Increasing
              the number of RSS servers to some point could help decrease job execution time, but
              will also have cost implications.


Instances: Drag the slider button to specify the number of
              RSS instances. 

Each RSS instance runs on i3.xlarge AWS EC2 instance, so each
                instance will contribute i3.xlarge cost to the total CDE cost .
                Overall shuffle data volume that can be stored by a virtual cluster at the same time
                is number of RSS instances * 880 GiB (gibibytes).




Optional: Select Enable Iceberg analytic
            tables to enable Spark jobs running within the virtual cluster to create and
          access Apache Iceberg tables.
Optional: 
Select Restrict Access to add access control for the virtual
          cluster. You can search for users to add by name or email address. You can manage users
          using the Cloudera Data Platform Management Console. For more information, see Managing user access and authorization.
Optional: 
Click Configure Email Alerting (Technical Preview) if you want
          to receive notification mails.The email configuration options appear.


 You must provide at least Sender Email Address and
                SMTP Host information.


Test SMTP Configs: Click Test SMTP
                Configs to test the configurations set for SMTP. This helps you to test
              the SMTP configuration before creating the cluster.



noteYou will have the option to enable email alerts when you
            create or edit a job after the Virtual Cluster is created, but step 10 must be completed
            first.

Click Create.
On the CDE Home page, select the
      environment to view the virtual cluster initialization status. You can also click the
      three-dot menu for the virtual cluster to view the logs. 

