Collaborating on Projects with Cloudera Machine LearningCloudera Docs
Collaborating on Projects with Cloudera Machine Learning
This topic discusses all the collaboration strategies available to Cloudera Machine
    Learning users.

Project Collaborators

If you want to work closely with trusted colleagues on a particular project, you can add
        them to the project as collaborators. This is recommended for collaboration over projects
        created under your personal account. Anyone who belongs to your organization can be added as
        a project collaborator.
Project Visibility Levels: When you create a project in your
        personal context, Cloudera Machine Learning asks you to assign one of the following
        visibility levels to the project - Private or Public. Public projects on Cloudera Machine
        Learning grant read-level access to everyone with access
        to the Cloudera Machine Learning application. For Private projects, you must explicitly add
        someone as a project collaborator to grant them access. 
Project Collaborator Access Levels: You can grant project
        collaborators the following levels of access: Viewer, Operator, Contributor, Admin
note
Collaborating Securely on Projects
Before adding project collaborators, you must remember that assigning
          the Contributor
or
Admin role to a project collaborator is the same as
          giving them write access to your data in CDH. This is because project contributors and
          project administrators have write access to all your project code (including any library
          code that you might not be actively inspecting). For example, a contributor/admin could
          modify project file(s) to insert code that deletes some data on the cluster. The next time
          you launch a session and run the same code, it will appear as though you deleted the data
          yourself.
Additionally, project collaborators also have access to all actively
          running sessions and jobs by default. This means that a malicious user can easily
          impersonate you by accessing one of your active
          sessions. Therefore, it is extremely important to restrict project access to trusted
          collaborators only. Note that site administrators can restrict this ability by allowing
          only session creators to run commands within their own active sessions. 
 For these reasons, Cloudera recommends using Git to collaborate
          securely on shared projects. 




Teams

Users who work together on more than one project and want to facilitate
        collaboration can create a Team. Teams allow streamlined administration of projects. Team
        projects are owned by the team, rather than an individual user. Only users that are already
        part of the team can be added as collaborators to projects created within the team context.
        Team administrators can add or remove members at any time, assigning each member different
        access permissions. 
Team Member Access Levels: You can grant team members the
        following levels of access: Viewer, Operator, Contributor, Admin. 



ML Business User
The ML Business User role is for a user who only needs to view any applications that
      are created within Cloudera Machine Learning. This is the ideal role for an employee who is
      not part of the Data Science team and does not need higher-level access to workspaces and
      projects, but needs to access the output of a Data Science workflow.
        MLBusinessUser seats are available for purchase
      separately.


Forking Projects

You can fork another user's project by clicking Fork on the Project page. Forking creates a new project
        under your account that contains all the files, libraries, configurations, jobs, and
        dependencies between jobs from the original project.
Creating sample projects that other users can fork helps to bootstrap
        new projects and encourage common conventions.



Collaborating with Git

Cloudera Machine Learning provides seamless access to Git projects.
        Whether you are working independently, or as part of a team, you can leverage all of
        benefits of version control and collaboration with Git from within Cloudera Machine
        Learning. Teams that already use Git for collaboration can continue to do so. Each team
        member will need to create a separate Cloudera Machine Learning project from the central Git
        repository. 
For anything but simple projects, Cloudera recommends using Git for
        version control. You should work on Cloudera Machine Learning the same way you would work
        locally, and for most data scientists and developers that means using Git. 


