Configure a Browser IDE as an EditorCloudera Docs
Configure a Browser IDE as an Editor
When you use a browser IDE, changes that you make in the editor are
    propagated to the Cloudera Machine Learning project. 

For example, if you create a new .py file or modify an
        existing one with the third-party editor, the changes are propagated to
        Cloudera Machine Learning. When you run the code from the IDE,
        execution is pushed from the IDE to Cloudera Machine Learning. 
Base Engine Image v8 and higher for Cloudera Machine Learning comes preconfigured with
        Jupyter, and any browser IDEs you want to add must be added to Base Engine Image v8 or
        higher. Jupyter can be selected in place of the built-in Workbench editor when you launch a
        session, and no additional configuration is required. You can configure additional IDEs to
        be available from the dropdown. 
You have two configuration options:

Project Level: You can configure an editor at the project level so that any
          session launched within that project can use the editor configured. Other projects across
          the deployment will not be able to use any editors configured in such a manner. For steps,
          see Configure a Browser IDE at the Project Level.
Engine Level: You can create a custom engine configured with the editor so that
          any project across the deployment that uses this custom engine can also use the editor
          configured. This might be the only option in case of certain browser IDEs (such as
          RStudio) that require root permission to install and therefore cannot be directly
          installed within the project. For steps, see Configure a Browser IDE at the Engine
          Level.

Cloudera recommends you first test the browser IDE you intend to install in a session
        before you install it to the project or build a custom engine with it. For steps, see
          Test a Browser IDE in a Session Before Installation.


Test a Browser IDE in a Session Before InstallationThis process can be used to ensure that a browser IDE works as     expected before you install it to a project or to a customized engine image.     This process is not meant for browser IDEs that require root permission to     install, such as RStudio.Configure a Browser IDE at the Project LevelThe following steps are only required if you want to use an editor that is not included     in the default engine image that ships with Cloudera Machine Learning.Configure a Browser IDE at the Legacy Engine LevelYou can make a browser IDE available to any project within a Cloudera Machine Learning     deployment by creating a customized legacy engine image, installing the editor to it, and adding     it to the trusted list for a project. Additionally, browser IDEs that require root permission to     install, such as RStudio, can only be used as part of a customized legacy engine     image.Parent topic: Third-Party Editors