Projects in Cloudera Machine LearningCloudera Docs
Projects in Cloudera Machine Learning
Projects form the heart of Cloudera Machine Learning. They hold all the code,
    configuration, and libraries needed to reproducibly run analyses. Each project is independent,
    ensuring users can work freely without interfering with one another or breaking existing
    workloads.
Access the Projects page by clicking Projects
      in the navigation panel. The Projects page gives you a quick summary of
      project information. 


Resource Usage Details - A collapsible section that displays resource usage.
Active Workloads - If there are active workloads running, this section describes
          the number of Sessions, Experiments,
          Models, Jobs, and
          Applications that are running.
User Resources and Workspace Resources

Click on the User Resources tab to see the CPU and memory
                resource usage for the user. The maximum usage of the vCPU and GB is calculated
                based on whether or not you have a quota. If you have a quota, the maximum usage
                will be based on your quota. If you don't have a quota, the maximum usage will be
                what is available on the cluster. If you have a GPU, you'll also see the GPU usage. 
Click on the Workspace Resources tab to see usage
                overall.



Search Projects - Enter a term for keyword search across Project
        names. 
Scope - An additional filter only viewable by Administrators. 
Selecting My Projects displays only the Projects that you have
            created or are a Collaborator of.
Selecting All Projects displays all Projects on the ML
            Workspace.


Creator - An additional filter to only display Projects created by
        a specified user. 
Projects View Selector - A setting that enables you to display Projects in a
        summary card-based view or a detailed table-based view.

The following topics describe how to create and manage projects in Cloudera
      Machine Learning.

Creating a Project with Legacy Engine VariantsProjects create an independent working environment to hold your code, configuration,     and libraries for your analysis. This topic describes how to create a project with Legacy Engine     variants in Cloudera Machine Learning.Creating a Project with ML Runtimes VariantsProjects create an independent working environment to hold your code, configuration,   and libraries for your analysis. This topic describes how to create a project with ML Runtimes   variants in Cloudera Machine Learning.Creating a project from a password-protected Git repoYou can create projects in CML by replicating the project files from a Git repo. The Git   repo can be public, or it can be private, accessed by SSH or HTTPS authentication. Configuring Project-level RuntimesIf you've specified project-level Runtimes, you can view your chosen Runtime     configuration by clicking Project Settings > Runtime/Engine. Your chosen Runtimes are listed under Available     Runtimes.Adding Project CollaboratorsThis topic shows you how to invite colleagues to collaborate on a     project. Modifying Project SettingsProject contributors and administrators can modify aspects of the project environment     such as the engine or ML Runtimes used to launch sessions,     the environment variables, and to create SSH tunnels to access external resources. Managing Project FilesCloudera Machine Learning allows you to move, rename, copy, and delete files     within the scope of the project where they live. You can also upload new files to a project, or     download project files. For use cases beyond simple projects, Cloudera strongly recommends using       Git for Collaboration  to manage your projects using version control.Custom Template ProjectsSite administrators can add template projects that have been     customized for their organization's use-cases. These custom project     templates can be added in the form of a Git repository. Deleting a ProjectThis topic demonstrates how to delete a project. 