Setting up VS CodeCloudera Docs
Setting up VS Code
In VS Code, you can configure an SSH interpreter. Cloudera Machine Learning uses this method to connect to VS Code and act as its
    interpreter. 
Ensure that you have installed the following:
Remote SSH extensionRemove Development using SSH
[Optional] Python extension
[Optional] R extension

Before you begin, ensure that the SSH endpoint for Cloudera Machine Learning is running on your local machine. If additional
      information is required, see the documentation for your version of VS Code for specific
      instructions.

Verify that the SSH endpoint for Cloudera Machine Learning is
          running with cdswctl. 
If the endpoint is not running, start it.

Open VS Code.

Open the command pallet and connect to a remote host.


Connect to the host you added previously.


For the first connection, you must accept the fingerprint.
You might not see a pop up, so pay attention to VS Code. If it's the first time your
          are connecting to a new session, or the port number changed, you will need to accept the
          fingerprint. 

While VS Code connects and sets up the remote connection, it installs some helper
          applications on the Cloudera Machine Learning server. Sometimes the
          remote session dies. Click Retry or if it's taking a long time, restart the remote session
          and it will recover.

noteIf you get stuck in a loop during setup with VS Code reconnecting
            every 30 secs or so, the issue is with the lock file that VS Code creates during the
            install. Close VS Code and in CML terminal, delete the
              /home/cdsw/.vscode-server/ directory and start again.


After you are connected, you can open the Explorer and view and edit the files in
            the /home/cdsw directory.


From the Explorer view, you can edit any of the files on your Cloudera Machine Learning server.

Using the Explorer view, you remotely edit and modify your Cloudera Machine Learning files. VS Code also supports Python and R which
          you offer has some powerful coding tools that you can take advantage of over the remote
          connection.


Parent topic: Configure VS Code as a Local IDE