Initiating automatic compaction in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Initiating automatic compaction in Cloudera Manager
Several properties in the Hive and Hive metastore service configurations must be set
        to enable automatic compaction. You need to check that the property settings are correct and
        to add one of the properties to the Hive on Tez service. Automatic compaction will then
        occur at regular intervals, but only if
        necessary.
 Initiator threads should run in only one metastore server/HA configuration.
            Disable Initiator threads in other metastore server/HA configurations. The following
            properties must be set in Hive metastore (Hive-1) and Hive on Tez services as
                follows:
hive.compactor.initiator.on = true (default)
hive.compactor.worker.threads = <a value greater than 0>
                    (default and recommended value = 5)
hive.metastore.runworker.in = hs2 (default)
You must run the compactor initiator on only one HMS instance at a time.

Tables or partitions you are compacting must be full ACID or
            insert-only ACID tables.

In Cloudera Manager, select the Hive metastore service: Clusters > Hive-1 > Configuration.

Search for compact.






Check that Turn on Compactor Initiator Thread
                        (hive.compactor.initiator.on), Number of Threads Used by
                    Compactor (hive.compactor.worker.threads), and Run Compactor on
                    Hive Metastore or HiveServer2 (hive.metastore.runworker.in) are
                    set to the values shown above.

Save the changes.

In Cloudera Manager, select the Hive on Tez service: Clusters > HIVE_ON_TEZ-1 > Configuration.

Search for compact.






Check that the Number of Threads Used by Compactor
                        (hive.compactor.worker.threads), and Run compactor on Hive
                    Metastore or HiveServer2 (hive.metastore.runworker.in) is set
                    to hs2.

Save the changes and restart the Hive on Tez and Hive (HIVE-1) metastore
                    services at an appropriate time.


Parent topic: Data compaction