ACID operationsCloudera Docs

ACID operations

 Apache Hive supports ACID (atomicity, consistency, isolation, and durability) v2
    transactions at the row level without any configuration. Knowing what this support entails helps
    you determine the table type you create.
By default, managed tables are ACID tables.  You cannot disable ACID
      transactions on managed tables, but you can change the Hive default behavior to create
      external tables by default to mimic legacy releases.
      
      Application development and operations are simplified with strong transactional guarantees and
      simple semantics for SQL commands. You do not need to bucket ACID v2 tables, so maintenance is
      easier. With improvements in transactional semantics, advanced optimizations, such as
      materialized view rewrites and automatic query cache, are available. With these optimizations,
      you can deploy new Hive application types.
A Hive operation is atomic. The operation either succeeds completely or fails; it does not
      result in partial data. A Hive operation is also consistent: After an application performs an
      operation, the results are visible to the application in every subsequent operation. Hive
      operations are isolated. Your operations do not cause unexpected side effects for other users.
      Finally, a Hive operation is durable. A completed operation is preserved in the event of a
      failure.
Hive operations are atomic at the row level instead of the table or partition level. A Hive
      client can read from a partition at the same time another client adds rows to the partition.
      Transaction streaming rapidly inserts data into Hive tables and partitions.

Related informationUnderstanding CREATE TABLE behaviorConfiguring partitions for transactionsYou set a couple of parameters, to prevent or permit dynamic partitioning, that     inserts, updates, or deletes data into partitions implicitly created on the table. Options to monitor transactionsAs a Hive administrator, you can view the list of all currently open and aborted   transactions using the SHOW TRANSACTIONS statement or by querying the    TRANSACTIONS view within the SYS database.Options to monitor transaction locksAs a Hive administrator, you can view information about locks on a table, partition, or   schema that are created as a result of transactions. You can either use the SHOW    LOCKS statement or query the LOCKS view within the SYS   database to view transaction locks.