Backing up ML workspacesCloudera Docs
Backing up ML workspaces
Cloudera Machine Learning makes it easy to create machine learning projects, jobs,
  experiments, ML models, and applications in workspaces. The data and metadata of these artifacts
  are stored in different types of storage systems in 
  private clouds or in external NFS-backed workspaces outside of a private
   cloud.
You can backup an ML workspace, and restore it  later. The backup preserves all files, models, applications and other assets in
   the workspace (files are note backed up by CML automatically for external NFS-based workspaces).
   All workspace backups can be viewed in the Workspace Backup Catalog
   UI.
The Backup and Restore feature gives you the ability to backup all of your data (except files
   in external NFS-backed workspaces) to protect your machine learning artifacts against disasters.
   If your Cloudera Machine Learning workspace is backed up, this feature lets you restore the saved
   data  so that you can recover your ML
   artifacts as they were saved in the desired backup. The Backup and Restore feature gives the
   administrator the ability to take “on-demand” backups of CML workspaces. Core services running in
   the workspace are shut down during the backup process to ensure consistency in the backup data.
   It is recommended that backups are taken during off-peak hours to minimize user impacts.
The time required to complete backing up a workspace depends on the
   amount of data to copy. The backup process copies data from both block volumes and internal NFS.
   In general, the time taken to backup NFS is the dominant factor. You should regularly back up CML
   workspaces.
The time to backup NFS is highly dependent on the amount of data, and on
   the nature and number of files. Based on the amount of data, you can set a timeout value while
   taking backup. You can view the status of ongoing/old backups on CML workspace UI and backup
   catalog UI.
There is currently no restriction on the number of backups one can take, and the backup
   snapshots are retained indefinitely in the 
   underlying private cloud cluster as long as the original workspace
    (from which this backup was taken from) is not deleted.. CML workspace backup details are
   stored in the Workspace Backup Catalog UI in the CML control plane, and
   these entries may be listed, viewed, deleted or restored as desired.
noteDeleting workspace backups from UI is not yet supported.
Restoring a backup overwrites the existing CML workspace (from which this
   backup was taken from) wherein the restored data is automatically imported. All the projects,
   jobs, applications, etc., that were in existence during the backup are automatically available in
   the new workspace. Restoring a CML backup overwrites the existing workspace with a new one and
   then launches restore jobs to create storage volumes from the backup snapshots. The restore
   process takes longer than a regular workspace provisioning operation due to the extra work in
   copying data from backup to the new storage volumes. Restores are always full-copy restores. The
   time to restore is dominated by NFS restoration, which takes at least as long as the time to
   backup the file system. The restored workspace is always created with the latest CML software
   version, which may be different from the CML version of the original workspace that was backed
   up.
noteML workspace Backup and Restore feature is available on both ECS and
   OCP, through the CML UI only.

Workspace Backup and Restore PrerequisitesTo backup and restore workspaces, check that the following prerequisites are   satisfied.Back up an ML workspaceBacking up an ML workspace preserves all files, models, applications, and other         assets in the workspace, although files in external NFS-backed workspaces are not backed up         by CML automatically.Restore an ML workspace Restoring a backup overwrites the existing CML workspace (from             which the backup was taken from) and automatically imports the restored data. All of the             projects, jobs, applications and so on in the original workspace are recreated in the             new one.