Workspace Backup and Restore PrerequisitesCloudera Docs
Workspace Backup and Restore Prerequisites
To backup and restore workspaces, check that the following prerequisites are
  satisfied.
The following prerequisites apply to Backup functionality.

Backup is enabled only for workspaces that are successfully installed.
All workloads (sessions, jobs, applications, models) should be turned off manually by the
    user before taking backup. This will ensure consistency in the backup data.
Core services running in the workspace are shut down during the backup process. So, during
    the backup process, the workspace will not be accessible to the customer.
It is recommended that backups are taken during off-peak hours to minimize user impacts.
Time to backup is proportional to the amount of data present in the workspace. So, give
    sufficient timeout when triggering backup.
Backup is supported for both external and internal NFS-backed workspaces.
Make sure enough disk space is available for taking workspace backup. Workspace backup
    generally takes an equivalent amount of storage space compared to the workspace itself.

The following prerequisites apply to Restore functionality.

Workspace restore doesn’t create a new workspace. It will instead replace the running
    workspace with an older backup.
Restore process, overwrites the existing workspace with one of the older backups. This means
    that anything on the running workspace which is not backed up will get lost forever. So, make
    sure you really want to restore an older version of the workspace. If you want to save the
    current state before restore, you can do so by first taking a new backup and then proceeding
    with the restore.
All workloads (sessions, jobs, applications, models) should be turned off manually by the
    user before triggering restore.
All workloads (sessions, jobs, applications, models) should be turned on manually by the user
    after restore has completed.
Time to restore is proportional to the amount of data present in the backup. In general,
    restoration will take at most 12 hours to complete.
Always make sure that any ongoing backup for a workspace is completed (by looking at
    workspace status and backup event logs), before triggering restore for it.


Parent topic: Backing up ML workspaces