Provision an ML WorkspaceCloudera Docs
Provision an ML Workspace
In CML on Private Cloud, the ML Workspace is where data scientists get their work
        done. After your Admin has created or given you access to an environment, you can set up a
        workspace. 
The first user to access the ML workspace after it is created must have the
            EnvironmentAdmin role assigned. 

Log in to the CDP Private Cloud web interface using your corporate credentials
                    or other credentials that you received from your CDP administrator.

Click ML Workspaces.

Click Provision Workspace. The Provision
                        Workspace panel displays.

In Provision Workspace, fill out the following
                    fields.


Workspace Name - Give the ML workspace a name.
                            For example, test-cml. Do not use capital letters in the workspace
                            name.


Select Environment - From the dropdown, select
                            the environment where the ML workspace must be provisioned. If you do
                            not have any environments available to you in the dropdown, contact your
                            CDP admin to gain access.


Namespace - Enter the namespace to use for the
                            ML workspace.


NFS Server - Select Internal to use an NFS
                            server that is integrated into the Kubernetes cluster. This is the
                            recommended selection at this time.
The path to the internal NFS server is already set in the
                            environment.



In Production Machine Learning, select to enable the
                    following features.


Enable Governance - Enables advanced lineage and
                            governance features.
Governance Principal Name - If
                                Enable Governance is selected, you can use
                            the default value of mlgov, or enter an alternative
                            name. The alternative name must be present in your environment and be
                            given permissions in Ranger to allow the MLGovernance service deliver
                            events to Atlas.


Enable Model Metrics - Enables exporting metrics
                            for models to a PostgreSQL database.



In Other Settings, select to enable the following
                    features.


Enable TLS - Select this to enable https access
                            to the workspace.


Enable Monitoring - Administrators (users with
                            the EnvironmentAdmin role) can use a Grafana dashboard to monitor
                            resource usage in the provisioned workspace.


CML Static Subdomain - This is a custom name for the workspace
                            endpoint, and it is also used for the URLs of models, applications, and
                            experiments. Only one workspace with the specific subdomain endpoint
                            name can be running at a time. You can create a wildcard certificate for
                            this endpoint in advance. The workspace name has this format:
                                <static subdomain name>.<application domain>

noteThe endpoint name can have a maximum of 15 characters, using
                                alphanumerics and hyphen or underscore only, and must start and end
                                with an alphanumeric character.




Click Provision Workspace. The new workspace
                    provisioning process takes several minutes.


After the workspace is provisioned, you can log in by clicking the workspace name on
                the Machine Learning Workspaces page. The first user to log
                in must be the administrator.


Related informationMonitoring ML WorkspacesRemoving ML Workspaces