Restore an ML workspaceCloudera Docs
Restore an ML workspace

Restoring a backup overwrites the existing CML workspace (from
            which the backup was taken from) and automatically imports the restored data. All of the
            projects, jobs, applications and so on in the original workspace are recreated in the
            new one.
noteRestoring a workspace is a non-reversible operation. The restore process
                overwrites the existing workpace with older backup data. Any data in the running
                workspace that is not backed up will be lost. To save the current state, take a new
                backup before proceeding with the restore operation.

In the Workspace Backups UI, find the workspace to
                    restore. You can search for the workspace name or CRN. There can be multiple
                    backups for a given workspace.

Enter the workspace, and manually stop all workloads (sessions, jobs,
                    applications, and models).
For external NFS backed workspaces, copy the manual backup of
                    external NFS data (corresponding to this particular backup) to the configured
                    external NFS export. Ignore this step if the workspace is configured with
                    internal NFS, as internal NFS data is backed up and restored automatically by
                    CML.

Look for the backup to restore, and click Restore. The
                    restore process starts, and the workplace state changes to Creating
                        workspace.

The restore process can take some time, depending on the amount of data to copy.
            When it is complete, you can find the restored workspace in the
                Workspaces UI. noteIf there is an issue during the restore
                process, the event log will show the relevant error messages. In case of error, the
                workspace will not recover from the failure automatically and will not revert back
                to the original state prior to the restore operation.
Monitoring event logs
You can monitor the progress of the backup process by checking the event logs. In the
                    Actions menu for the workspace, click View
                    Event Logs, and then on the Events & Logs
                tab, click View Event Logs again for the latest backup event. 
When the backup process completes, the workspace enters the installation completed
                state again.
If there were issues during backup, appropriate error messages will be displayed in
                the event logs. However the workspace will recover from failure and will be reverted
                back to the original state when backup was triggered.

Parent topic: Backing up ML workspaces