Configure the processor for your data targetCloudera Docs
Configure the processor for your data target
Learn how to configure the target processor of the CDW Iceberg ingest data
    flow.

You can set up a data flow to move data to many locations. This example assumes that
        you are moving data to Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). Once your data is collected and
        available in your flow, you can use the PutIceberg processor to send the data in the CDW
        table.


Launch the Configure Processor window, by right-clicking the
            PutIceberg processor and selecting
          Configure.
A configuration dialog with the following tabs is displayed:
            Settings, Scheduling,
            Properties, and Comments.
Configure the processor according to the behavior you expect in your data
          flow.
With the PutIceberg processor, you can ingest data using Iceberg
          table format.When you have finished configuring the options you need, click
            Apply to save the changes.Make sure that you set all required properties, because you cannot start the processor until
          all mandatory properties are configured.
The following settings and properties are used in this example: Table 1. PutIceberg processor properties

Property
Description
Example value for ingest data flow




Record Reader


Select the Record Reader of your choice based on the format of your incoming data
                  that should be pushed in the table.


JSON Reader




Catalog Service


Add the Hive Catalog Controller Service you have created. 


Hive Catalog Service




Catalog Namespace


Set the Catalog Namespace property to the name of the database where you created
                  the destination table.


default




Table Name


Set the Table Name property to the name of the table previously created.


customer




Kerberos User Service


Add the Kerberos User Service of your choice (based on username/password or based
                  on username/keytab) that you have created.


Kerberos Password User Service



Your data flow is ready to ingest data into an Iceberg table in CDW. You can now
      start the flow.

Parent topic: Ingesting data into CDW using Iceberg table format
