NiFi Registry TLS/SSL PropertiesCloudera Docs
NiFi Registry TLS/SSL Properties
To enable and configure TLS manually for NiFi Registry, edit the security properties
  according to the cluster configuration.
The following table lists the TLS/SSL Security properties for NiFi Registry: 


Property
Description



NiFi Registry TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
         Locationnifi.registry.security.keystore
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and
       private key used for TLS/SSL. Used when NiFi Registry is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The
       keystore must be in JKS format.


NiFi Registry TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
         Passwordnifi.registry.security.keystorePasswd
The password for the NiFi Registry JKS keystore file.


NiFi Registry TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key
         Passwordnifi.registry.security.keyPasswd
The password that protects the private key contained in the JKS keystore used
       when NiFi Registry is acting as a TLS/SSL server.


NiFi Registry TLS/SSL Client Trust Store
         Filenifi.registry.security.truststore
The location on disk of the trust store, in .jks format, used to confirm the
       authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that NiFi Registry might connect to. This is used when NiFi
       Registry is the client in a TLS/SSL connection. This trust store must contain the
       certificate(s) used to sign the service(s) connected to. If this parameter is not provided,
       the default list of well-known certificate authorities is used instead.


NiFi Registry TLS/SSL Client Trust Store
         Passwordnifi.registry.security.truststorePasswd
The password for the NiFi Registry TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store File. This
       password is not required to access the trust store; this field can be left blank. This
       password provides optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of trust stores are
       certificates, and certificates are public information.



Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL manually