Use case 1: Use Cloudera Manager to generate internal CA and corresponding certificatesCloudera Docs
Use case 1: Use Cloudera Manager to generate internal CA and corresponding
  certificates
Use Cloudera Manager to create and manage its own Certificate Authority.

To choose this option, from Cloudera Manager go to Administration > Security > (Status tab) > Enable Auto-TLS. The Enable Auto-TLS page comes up.


In the Trusted CA Certificates Location field in the
            Generate CA section, enter the path to a PEM file on the Cloudera
          Manager host which contains a list of root CA certificates that should be imported into
          the truststores of all hosts. This is an optional field.


From the Enable TLS for: options, select All existing
            and future clusters to enable Auto-TLS for all existing and future clusters,
          or select Future clusters only to enable Auto-TLS for future
          clusters only.
Select the required SSH Username option. The available options
          are root and Another user. noteIf
              Another user is selected, ensure that you specify the name of a
            user having passwordless sudo privileges.
Select the required Authentication Method. You can either enable
          all hosts to accept the same password or you can enable all hosts to accept the same
          private key.
Enter the password in the Password field and verify the
            SSH Port number.
Click Next.
You are prompted to start Cloudera Manager, followed by Cloudera management services and
      any impacted clusters. When you start the Cloudera Manager server, you should see the UI at
      the TLS port 7183 by default. The browser displays a self-signed certificate from the SCM
      Local CA authority, as shown below. The browser displays a warning because it is not aware of
      the Root CA generated by Cloudera Manager. When the Root CA is imported into the client
      browser’s truststore, this warning is not displayed by the browser.

When you set up the cluster, you should see a message stating that Auto-TLS is already
      enabled. Continue to install the required services. The whole cluster is TLS encrypted. Any
      new hosts or services are automatically configured. Here is an example of HDFS service with
      TLS encryption enabled by default (after trusting the root certificate generated by Cloudera
        Manager).

While this option is the simplest, it may not be suitable for some enterprise
      deployments where TLS certificates are issued by the company’s existing Certificate Authority
      (CA) to maintain a centralized chain of trust.
Rotate Auto-TLS Certificate Authority and Host Certificates
Your cluster security requirements may require that you rotate the Auto-TLS CA and
     certificates.
Navigate to Administration > Security.
Click the Rotate Auto-TLS Certificates button to launch the
      wizard.
Complete the wizard.



Related informationUse case 2: Enabling Auto-TLS with an intermediate CA signed by an existing Root CAUse case 3: Enabling Auto-TLS with Existing CertificatesParent topic: Configuring TLS Encryption for Cloudera Manager Using Auto-TLS