Enabling security for Apache FlinkCloudera Docs
Enabling security for Apache Flink
Since Flink is essentially just a YARN application, you mainly need to configure service
  level security settings for the Flink Dashboard and Gateway in Cloudera Manager. You can configure
  security during the installation or later in the Configuration menu for Flink.
Kerberos
Kerberos authentication can be enabled for Flink by simply checking the corresponding checkbox
    in the service wizard while adding the service or later in the service configuration page in
    Cloudera Manager. The service wizard in Cloudera Manager enables the Kerberos service, and no
    further action is required to be able to use the authentication with Flink.
For more information about enabling Kerberos authentication using the service wizard, see the
    Cloudera Manager documentation.

TLS encryption
If AutoTLS is enabled on the cluster, the TLS-related configuration fields are auto-populated
    for the Flink Dashboard and Gateway. You can set {{CM_AUTO_TLS}} as value for
    the security properties when using AutoTLS in Cloudera Manager. If AutoTLS is not used, the
    settings have to be configured manually. 


Ensure that you have set up TLS for Cloudera Manager:
Generate TLS certificates
Configure TLS for Admin Console and Agents
Enable server certificate verification on Agents
Configure agent certificate authentication
Configure agent certificate authentication



Click Flink service on your Cluster.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Category > Security.
All the security related properties are displayed.

Edit the security properties according to the cluster configuration.

noteYou need to provide the keystore and truststore information for the Flink Dashboard and
      the Gateway as well.


Security property
Description



Enable TLS/SSL for Flink Dashboard
Select the checkbox to enable TLS/SSL for Flink Dashboard to encrypt communication
          between the clients and Flink Dashboard.


Flink Dashboard TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Location
Path to the keystore file containing the server certificate and private key used for
          TLS/SSL. The keystore must be in JKS format.


Flink Dashboard TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Password
Password for the Flink Dashboard JKS keystore file.


Flink Dashboard TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key Password
Password that protects the private key contained in the JKS keystore.


Flink Dashboard TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
Location of the truststore file on disk. The truststore file must be in JKS format.
          If this parameter is not provided, the default list of well-known certificate authorities
          is used instead.


Flink Dashboard TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
Password for the Flink Dashboard TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store File. Provides
          optional integrity checking of the file. This password is not required to access the trust
          store, this field can be left blank.


Gateway TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
Location of the truststore file on disk. The truststore file must be in JKS format.
          This is used when Gateway is the client in a TLS/SSL connection. If this parameter is not
          provided, the default list of well-known certificate authorities is used instead.


Gateway TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
The password for the Gateway TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store. Provides optional
          integrity checking of the file. This password is not required to access the trust store,
          this field can be left blank.




Click Save Changes.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services