Encryption in SSBCloudera Docs
Encryption in SSB
When auto-TLS is disabled for the SQL Stream Builder (SSB) service, you must manually
  set the TLS properties for SSB in Cloudera Manager.

Ensure that you have set up Transport Layer Security (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket
    Layer (SSL)) for Cloudera Manager:
Generated TLS certificates
Configured TLS for Admin Console and Agents
Enabled server certificate verification on Agents
Configured agent certificate authentication
Configured TLS encryption on the agent listening port
For more information, see the Cloudera Manager documentation.noteYou can also
     configure the security parameters when adding SQL Stream Builder as a service using the Add
     Service Wizard.


Click SQL Builder service on your Cluster.

Go to the Configuration tab.

Select Category > Security.
All the security related properties are displayed.

Edit the security properties according to the cluster configuration.

noteYou need to provide the keystore and truststore information for the Materialized View
      Engine, the SQL Stream Engine, and for the Streaming SQL Console.




Materialized View Engine



Enable TLS/SSL for Materialized View Engine
Select the option to encrypt communication between clients and Materialized View
          Engine using Transport Layer Security (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer
          (SSL)).


Materialized View Engine TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Location
Path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and private key
          used for TLS/SSL. Used when Materialized View Engine is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The
          keystore must be in JKS format.


Materialized View Engine TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Password
Password for the Materialized View Engine JKS keystore file.


Materialized View Engine TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key Password
Password that protects the private key contained in the JKS keystore.


Materialized View Engine TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
Location of the truststore on disk. The truststore must be in JKS format. If this
          parameter is not provided, the default list of known certificate authorities is used
          instead.


Materialized View Engine TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
The password for the Materialized View Engine TLS/SSL Certificate truststore file.
          This password is not mandatory to access the truststore; this field is optional. This
          password provides optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of truststores are
          certificates, and certificates are public information.




SQL Stream Engine



Enable TLS/SSL for Streaming SQL Engine
Select the option to encrypt communication between clients and Streaming SQL Engine
          using Transport Layer Security (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer
          (SSL)).


Streaming SQL Engine TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Location
Path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and private key
          used for TLS/SSL. Used when Streaming SQL Engine is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The
          keystore must be in JKS format.


Streaming SQL Engine TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Password
Password for the Streaming SQL Engine JKS keystore file.


Streaming SQL Engine TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key Password
Password that protects the private key contained in the JKS keystore used when
          Streaming SQL Engine is acting as a TLS/SSL server.


Streaming SQL Engine TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
Location on disk of the truststore, in .jks format, used to confirm the authenticity
          of TLS/SSL servers that Streaming SQL Engine might connect to. This is used when Streaming
          SQL Engine is the client in a TLS/SSL connection. This truststore must contain the
          certificate(s) used to sign the service(s) connected to. If this parameter is not
          provided, the default list of known certificate authorities is used instead.


Streaming SQL Engine TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
Password for the Streaming SQL Engine TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store file. This
          password is not mandatory to access the trust store; this field is optional. This password
          provides optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of truststores are
          certificates, and certificates are public information.




Click Save Changes.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services