Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for DAS using Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for DAS using Cloudera Manager
To secure the transfer of sensitive information between Data Analytics Studio (DAS)
        and Cloudera Manager as well as with other services within your cluster, you must enable
        TLS/SSL for both Event Processor and WebApp. You can configure TLS manually using Cloudera
        Manager or have it set up automatically using the “Auto-TLS” feature.

If you have Auto-TLS enabled at the cluster-level, then DAS is also configured to use
                the TLS encryption. To check whether Auto-TLS is enabled for your cluster:
Sign in to Cloudera Manager as an administrator.
Go to Administration > Security.
If Auto-TLS is enabled, the Status page displays
                            “Auto-TLS is Enabled.”If Auto-TLS is not
                            enabled, then click Enable Auto-TLS and complete
                            the wizard.

If the TLS certificates are issued by your existing Certificate Authority (CA) to
                maintain a centralized chain of trust, then you can manually configure TLS for DAS.
                To manually configure TLS/SSL for DAS:


Sign in to Cloudera Manager as an administrator.

Go to Clusters > $Data Analytics Studio service > Configuration and select Enable TLS/SSL for Data Analytics Studio
                        Eventprocessor and Enable TLS/SSL for Data Analytics
                        Studio Webapp Server.

Specify the location of the keystore and the truststore files and the
                    corresponding passwords for both DAS Event Processor and WebApp server as
                    explained in the following table: 


Property
Description

Data Analytics Studio Eventprocessor TLS/SSL Server
                                    JKS Keystore File Location

Enter the location of the keystore file for the DAS Event
                                    Processor. This is used when the Event Processor is the server
                                    in a TLS/SSL connection.
The keystore must be in JKS format.


Data Analytics Studio Eventprocessor TLS/SSL Server
                                    JKS Keystore File Password

Enter the password for the Event Processor JKS keystore file.


Data Analytics Studio Webapp Server TLS/SSL Server
                                    JKS Keystore File Location

Enter the location of the keystore file for the DAS WebApp. This
                                    is used when the WebApp is the server in a TLS/SSL
                                    connection.
The keystore must be in JKS format.


Data Analytics Studio Webapp Server TLS/SSL Server
                                    JKS Keystore File Password

Enter the password for the WebApp JKS keystore file.


Data Analytics Studio Eventprocessor TLS/SSL Client
                                    Trust Store File

 Enter the location of the truststore for the DAS Event Processor
                                    in JKS format. This is used when the Event Processor is the
                                    client in a TLS/SSL connection.
The truststore must contain the certificate(s) used to sign the
                                    service(s) connected to. If this parameter is not provided, the
                                    default list of known certificate authorities is used
                                    instead.


Data Analytics Studio Eventprocessor TLS/SSL Client
                                    Trust Store Password

Enter the password for the Event Processor TLS/SSL Certificate
                                    Trust Store File. This password is not mandatory to access the
                                    truststore. If set, it checks the integrity of the file. The
                                    contents of truststores are certificates, and certificates are
                                    public information.


Data Analytics Studio Webapp Server TLS/SSL Client
                                    Trust Store File

Enter the location of the truststore for the DAS WebApp
                                    in JKS format. This is used when the WebApp server is the client
                                    in a TLS/SSL connection.
The truststore must contain the certificate(s) used to
                                    sign the service(s) connected to. If this parameter is not
                                    provided, the default list of known certificate authorities is
                                    used instead.


Data Analytics Studio Webapp Server TLS/SSL Client
                                    Trust Store Password

Enter the password for the WebApp server TLS/SSL
                                    Certificate Trust Store File. This password is not mandatory to
                                    access the truststore. If set, it checks the integrity of the
                                    file. The contents of truststores are certificates, and
                                    certificates are public information.




Click Save Changes.

Restart the DAS service.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services