Configure TLS/SSL encryption for Kafka brokersCloudera Docs
Configure TLS/SSL encryption for Kafka brokers
Kafka supports TLS/SSL encrypted communication with both brokers and clients. To
    enable and configure TLS/SSL, you need to enable TLS/SSL for the brokers and enter key and
    truststore related information. 

The following list of steps walks you through the configuration required to set up TLS/SSL
        encryption for Kafka brokers. It lists all mandatory configuration properties as well as a
        number of optional properties that you can configure. 
Kafka brokers support multiple key and truststore types. The following instructions,
        however, do not provide details regarding how the key or truststore type used by the brokers
        is configured. This is because the store type is not configured at a broker level. Instead,
        it is configured on Cloudera Manager’s central security page by going to
            Administration > Settings > Java
            Keystore Type.




Generate or acquire a key and truststore for your brokers which contain all necessary
            keys and certificates.  
Note down the locations and passwords for the key and truststores. You will need to
            provide these during configuration.



In Cloudera Manager, select the Kafka service. Go to Configuration.Find and configure the following properties based on your cluster and
          requirements.


Cloudera Manager Property
Description



Enable TLS/SSL for Kafka Broker
Enables or disables TLS/SSL communication between clients and the Kafka
                    broker. 


Kafka Broker TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and
                    private key used for TLS/SSL. Used when the Kafka broker is acting as a TLS/SSL
                    server. 


Kafka Broker TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Password
The password for the Kafka broker keystore file.


Kafka Broker TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key Password
The password that protects the private key contained in the keystore used
                    when the Kafka broker is acting as a TLS/SSL server.


Kafka Broker TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
The location on disk of the truststore used to confirm the authenticity of
                    TLS/SSL servers that the Kafka broker might connect to. This is used when the
                    Kafka broker is the client in a TLS/SSL connection. This truststore must contain
                    the certificate(s) that signed the certificate(s) of the connected service(s).
                    If this parameter is not provided, the default list of known certificate
                    authorities is used instead.


Kafka Broker TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
The password for the Kafka broker truststore file. This password is not
                    mandatory to access the truststore; this field can be left blank. This password
                    provides optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of truststores
                    are certificates, and certificates are public information.


(Optional) Configure additional properties.If required, additional
          TLS/SSL related properties can be configured with the Kafka Broker Advanced
            Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for kafka.properties property. The
          following are some of the most commonly used optional properties:

Kafka Broker Property 
Description



ssl.provider
The name of the security provider used for TLS/SSL connections. Default is
                    the default security provider of the JVM.


ssl.cipher.suites
 A cipher suite is a named combination of authentication, encryption, MAC,
                    and a key exchange algorithm used to negotiate the security settings for a
                    network connection using the TLS/SSL network protocol.


ssl.enabled.protocols
List of enabled protocols, for example, TLSv1.2,TLSv1.1,TLSv1. Should
                    contain at least one protocol.

Click Save Changes.Restart the Kafka service.
Kafka brokers are configured for TLS/SSL encryption. 
Configure your clients for TLS/SSL encryption. Alternatively, you can also continue
      with configuring TLS/SSL authentication for the brokers.

Parent topic: Channel encryption