Configuring TLS/SSL encryption for Kudu using Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL encryption for Kudu using Cloudera Manager
TLS/SSL encryption is enabled between Kudu servers and clients by default. You can
        enable TLS/SSL encryption for Kudu web UIs or configure the encryption using Cloudera
        Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, navigate to Kudu >  Configuration.

In the Search field, type TLS/SSL to show the relevant
                    properties.

Edit the following properties according to your cluster configuration:

Table 1. TLS/SSL Kudu properties

Property
Description



Master TLS/SSL Server Private Key File (PEM
                                        Format)
Set to the path containing the Kudu master host's private
                                        key (Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM)-format). This is used to
                                        enable TLS/SSL encryption (over HTTPS) for browser-based
                                        connections to the Kudu master web UI.


Tablet Server TLS/SSL Server Private Key File (PEM
                                        Format)
Set to the path containing the Kudu tablet server host's
                                        private key (PEM-format). This is used to enable TLS/SSL
                                        encryption (over HTTPS) for browser-based connections to
                                        Kudu tablet server web UIs.


Master TLS/SSL Server Certificate File (PEM
                                        Format)
Set to the path containing the signed certificate
                                        (PEM-format) for the Kudu master host's private key (set in
                                        Master TLS/SSL Server Private Key File). The certificate
                                        file can be created by concatenating all the appropriate
                                        root and intermediate certificates required to verify
                                        trust.


Tablet Server TLS/SSL Server Certificate File (PEM
                                        Format)
Set to the path containing the signed certificate
                                        (PEM-format) for the Kudu tablet server host's private key
                                        (set in Tablet Server TLS/SSL Server Private Key File). The
                                        certificate file can be created by concatenating all the
                                        appropriate root and intermediate certificates required to
                                        verify trust.


Enable TLS/SSL for Master Server
Enables HTTPS encryption on the Kudu master web
                                        UI.


Enable TLS/SSL for Tablet Server
Enables HTTPS encryption on the Kudu tablet server web
                                        UIs.


Enable Secure Authentication, Encryption, and Web
                                        UI
Enables Kerberos for Kudu servers, clients and web
                                        servers, and enables encryption for Kudu servers and
                                        clients.




Click Save Changes.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services