Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for LivyCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for Livy
You can enable TLS manually for the Apache Livy Server.

In Cloudera Manager, select the
                        Livy service from the Clusters
                    drop-down menu.

In the Configuration tab, enter tls
                    into the search box.

Edit the following property fields as needed for your cluster and
                    environment:



Property
Description



Gateway TLS/SSL Trust Store File
The location on disk of the trust store, in .jks format,
                                        used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that
                                        Gateway might connect to. This trust store must contain the
                                        certificate(s) used to sign the service(s) connected to. If
                                        this parameter is not provided, the default list of
                                        well-known certificate authorities is used instead.


Gateway TLS/SSL Trust Store Password
The password for the Gateway TLS/SSL Trust Store File.
                                        This password is not required to access the trust store;
                                        this field can be left blank. This password provides
                                        optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of
                                        trust stores are certificates, and certificates are public
                                        information.


Enable TLS/SSL for Livy Server
Encrypt communication between clients and Livy Server
                                        using Transport Layer Security (TLS) (formerly known as
                                        Secure Socket Layer (SSL)).


Livy Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                        Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the
                                        server certificate and private key used for TLS/SSL. Used
                                        when Livy Server is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The keystore
                                        must be in JKS format.


Livy Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                        Password
The password for the Livy Server JKS keystore
                                        file.




Click Save Changes.

Restart the Livy service.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services