Configure Lily HBase Indexer to use TLS/SSLCloudera Docs
Configure Lily HBase Indexer to use TLS/SSL
Although Cloudera recommends using AutoTLS, you also have the option to set up TLS
        manually for the Lily HBase Indexer.
To configure and enable Hadoop TLS/SSL for the Lily HBase
            Indexer (Key-Value Store Indexer) perform the following steps.

Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and go to the Key-Value Store
                        Indexer.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Scope > All.

Select Category > All.

In the Search field, type TLS/SSL to show the Solr TLS/SSL
                    properties.

Edit the following TLS/SSL properties according to your cluster
                    configuration.

noteThese values must be the same for all hosts running the Key-Value Store
                        Indexer role.
Table 1. Key-Value Store TLS/SSL Properties

Property
Description



HBase Indexer TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store
                                        File
The location on disk of the truststore, in .jks format,
                                        used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that
                                        HBase Indexer might connect to. This is used when HBase
                                        Indexer is the client in a TLS/SSL connection. This
                                        truststore must contain the certificate(s) used to sign the
                                        service(s) being connected to. If this parameter is not
                                        provided, the default list of well-known certificate
                                        authorities is used instead.


HBase Indexer TLS/SSL Certificate Trust Store Password
                                        (Optional)
The password for the HBase Indexer TLS/SSL Certificate
                                        Trust Store File. This password is not required to access
                                        the truststore: this field can be left blank. This password
                                        provides optional integrity checking of the file. The
                                        contents of truststores are certificates, and certificates
                                        are public information.




Restart the service.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services