Overriding custom keystore alias on a Ranger KMS ServerCloudera Docs
Overriding custom keystore alias on a Ranger KMS Server
Use this procedure to override the custom keystore alias on a Ranger KMS
        server.

The custom keystore alias may need to be overridden in the following scenarios:

User has manually enabled TLS/SSL during fresh installations of Ranger KMS and
                    Ranger KMS with Key Trustee Server (KTS), and the keystore alias was not added
                    to the hostname.
User has upgraded from CDP-DC 7.0.3 with Key Trustee KMS and Ranger to CDP-DC
                    7.1.1 (where Ranger KMS with KTS is added during the upgrade) in a TLS/SSL
                    environment in which TLS/SSL was manually enabled, and the keystore alias was
                    not added to the hostname.



Parent topic: Configure TLS/SSL encryption manually for Ranger KMS
Overriding custom keystore alias while configuring TLS/SSL on a single instance of
            Ranger KMS Server


In Cloudera Manager, select Ranger KMS >
                            Configuration and search for
                            ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.keyalias to set
                        the custom alias value for the Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Keystore
                            File Alias configuration parameter.

Click Save Changes.

Restart the Ranger KMS service.




Overriding custom keystore alias while configuring TLS/SSL on multiple instances of
            Ranger KMS Server


In Cloudera Manager, select Ranger KMS > Instances
                        and select Ranger KMS Server role > Configuration.
                        Use the Add (+) icons for the Ranger KMS Server Advanced
                            Configuration Snippet (Safety valve) for
                            conf/ranger-kms-site.xml property to add the following
                        property:

ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.keyalias = <expected alias>


This overrides the configuration on the host on which the current Ranger
                            KMS Server role is available.


Repeat Step 1 for all the other Ranger KMS Servers to override the
                        configuration by using the Ranger KMS Server Advanced
                            Configuration Snippet (Safety valve) for
                            conf/ranger-kms-site.xml property.

Restart the Ranger KMS service.

noteWhen high-availability has been enabled for Ranger KMS, the keystore
                            may not have the same alias for different KMS instances. In such cases,
                            use FQDN as the alias or add the custom key alias
                            configuration in the Ranger KMS Server Advanced Configuration
                                Snippet (Safety valve) for conf/ranger-kms-site.xml
                            property of each host.




