Configure TLS/SSL encryption manually for Ranger KMSCloudera Docs
Configure TLS/SSL encryption manually for Ranger KMS 
How to  manually configure TLS/SSL encryption for Ranger KMS


In Cloudera Manager, select Ranger KMS, then click the Configuration
                    tab.

Under Category, select Security.

Set the following properties:

Table 1. Ranger KMS TLS/SSL Settings

Configuration Property
Description




Enable TLS/SSL for Ranger KMS Server 
ranger.service.https.attrib.ssl.enabled


Encrypt communication between clients and Ranger KMS
                                            Server using Transport Layer Security (TLS) (formerly
                                            known as Secure Socket Layer (SSL)).




Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                            Location
ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.file


The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the
                                            server certificate and private key used for TLS/SSL.
                                            Used when Ranger KMS Server is acting as a TLS/SSL
                                            server. The keystore must be in JKS format.




Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                            Password
ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.pass


The password for the Ranger KMS Server JKS keystore
                                            file.




Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Trust Store File
xasecure.policymgr.clientssl.truststore


The location on disk of the trust store, in .jks format,
                                            used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that
                                            Ranger KMS Server might connect to. This trust store
                                            must contain the certificate(s) used to sign the
                                            service(s) connected to.
The Ranger KMS plugin inside the Ranger KMS Server
                                            connects to Ranger Admin to download the authorization
                                            policies. If Ranger Admin is SSL enabled, make sure you
                                            add a Ranger Admin certificate in the trust store.
If this parameter is not provided, the default list of
                                            well-known certificate authorities is used instead.




Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Trust Store Password
xasecure.policymgr.clientssl.truststore.password


The password for the Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Trust
                                            Store File. This password is not required to access the
                                            trust store; this field can be left blank. This password
                                            provides optional integrity checking of the file. The
                                            contents of trust stores are certificates, and
                                            certificates are public information.





In Filters > Search > , type
                        ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.keyalias to set
                    the  Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Keystore File Alias property.

Table 2. Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Keystore Alias Property Settings

Configuration Property
Description




Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL Keystore File Alias
ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.keyalias


The alias for the Ranger KMS Server TLS/SSL keystore
                                            file. 
If host FQDN is used as an alias while creating a
                                            keystore file, the {{HOST}} default placeholder value
                                            will be replaced with the host FQDN where Ranger KMS
                                            Server will be installed in the current cluster. 
The placeholder can be replaced to have a custom alias
                                            used while creating the keystore file.
If using a custom alias which is the same as host short
                                            name then use {{HOST_UQDN}} placeholder as a value.





Click Save Changes.


Overriding custom keystore alias on a Ranger KMS ServerUse this procedure to override the custom keystore alias on a Ranger KMS         server.Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services