Enabling TLS/SSL for the SRM serviceCloudera Docs
Enabling TLS/SSL for the SRM service
TLS/SSL can be enabled and configured for the Streams Replication Manager (SRM)
    service (Driver and Service roles) with various configuration properties available in Cloudera
    Manager. Configuring these properties affects the security configuration of SRM in multiple
    ways.

Both the Driver and Service roles of SRM have a number of TLS/SSL related properties
        associated with them. A dedicated TLS/SSL feature toggle exists for both roles. These are
        the Enable TLS/SSL for SRM Driver and Enable TLS/SSL for
          SRM Service properties. In addition to the feature toggles, there are a number
        of other properties that can be used to configure key and truststore information.
Configuring the feature toggles and the key/truststore related properties have the
        following effects on SRM’s security configuration:
The SRM Service role’s REST server becomes secured and uses HTTPS.
The SRM Driver role’s replication specific Connect REST servers become secured and use
            HTTPS. In addition, client authentication will also be required from any client
            connecting to these servers. noteThe replication specific Connect REST servers are for
              internal use only. They enable communication between Driver role instances. Third
              party clients should not interface with them.
If the deployment has a co-located Kafka cluster and that cluster was configured using
            a service dependency, both the Service and Driver roles will use the keystore and
            truststore information when they establish a connection with the co-located Kafka
            cluster.
Both the Driver and Service roles will use these properties as fallback configurations
            when establishing a connection to a Kafka cluster. That is, if there is a Kafka
              cluster in your configuration that has its protocol specified as SSL, but no trust or
              keystore information is set for it, the roles will use the truststore and keystore
              configured with these properties.
important Configuring the feature toggles and key/truststore properties
          on their own do not enable SRM to connect to or replicate a TLS/SSL enabled external Kafka
          cluster. They also do not have an effect on the srm-control tool’s
          security configuration.
Configuring these properties is part of the process of defining and adding clusters
        described in Defining and adding clusters for replication. Depending on how you
        set up your co-located cluster, these properties might already be configured.
 If you configured the co-located cluster with a service dependency, then these properties
        are configured in your deployment and no additional steps are needed to enable or configure
        TLS/SSL.
However, if you chose to set up the co-located cluster with a Kafka credential, these
        properties might not be configured. Although in a case like this the properties required by
        SRM to access the co-located cluster will be set, the server functionality of the roles will
        not be TLS/SSL enabled. Additionally, while not crucial, no fallback properties will be set
        up for security either. In a case like this Cloudera recommends that you complete the
        following steps.

In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters and select the Streams
          Replication Manager service.Go to Configuration.Find and configure the following properties based on your cluster and
          requirements:
Table 1. 

Cloudera Manager Property
Description



Enable TLS/SSL for SRM Driver
Encrypt communication between clients and SRM Driver using Transport Layer
                    Security (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer (SSL)).


SRM Driver TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                    Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and
                    private key used for TLS/SSL. Used when SRM Driver is acting as a TLS/SSL
                    server. The keystore must be in JKS format.


SRM Driver TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                    Password
The password for the SRM Driver JKS keystore file.


SRM Driver TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key
                    Password
The password that protects the private key contained in the JKS keystore
                    used when SRM Driver is acting as a TLS/SSL server.


SRM Driver TLS/SSL Trust Store File
The location on disk of the trust store, in .jks format, used to confirm
                    the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that SRM Driver might connect to. This trust
                    store must contain the certificate(s) used to sign the service(s) connected to.
                    If this parameter is not provided, the default list of well-known certificate
                    authorities is used instead.


SRM Driver TLS/SSL Trust Store Password
The password for the SRM Driver TLS/SSL Trust Store File. This password is
                    not required to access the trust store; this field can be left blank. This
                    password provides optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of trust
                    stores are certificates, and certificates are public information.


Enable TLS/SSL for SRM Service
Encrypt communication between clients and SRM Service using Transport Layer
                    Security (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer (SSL))


SRM Service TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                      Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the server certificate and
                    private key used for TLS/SSL. Used when SRM Service is acting as a TLS/SSL
                    server. The keystore must be in JKS format.


SRM Service TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                      Password
The password for the SRM Service JKS keystore file.


SRM Service TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key
                    Password
The password that protects the private key contained in the JKS keystore
                    used when SRM Service is acting as a TLS/SSL server.


SRM Service TLS/SSL Trust Store File
The location on disk of the trust store, in .jks format, used to confirm
                    the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that SRM Service might connect to. This
                    trust store must contain the certificate(s) used to sign the service(s)
                    connected to. If this parameter is not provided, the default list of well-known
                    certificate authorities is used instead.


SRM Service TLS/SSL Trust Store Password
The password for the SRM Service TLS/SSL Trust Store File. This password is
                    not required to access the trust store; this field can be left blank. This
                    password provides optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of trust
                    stores are certificates, and certificates are public information.


Click Save Changes.Restart the SRM service.

Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services