Configuring TLS/SSL for Core Hadoop ServicesCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL for Core Hadoop Services
TLS/SSL for the core Hadoop services (HDFS and YARN) must be enabled as a
  group.
TLS/SSL for the core Hadoop services (HDFS and YARN) must be enabled as a group. Enabling
   TLS/SSL on HDFS is required before it can be enabled on YARN.
noteIf you enable TLS/SSL for HDFS, you must also enable it for YARN.
The steps in the following topics include enabling Kerberos authentication for HTTP
   Web-Consoles. Enabling TLS/SSL for the core Hadoop services on a cluster without enabling
   authentication displays a warning.
Before You Begin

Before enabling TLS/SSL, keystores containing certificates bound to the appropriate domain
     names will need to be accessible on all hosts on which at least one HDFS or YARN daemon role is
     running.
Since HDFS and YARN daemons act as TLS/SSL clients as well as TLS/SSL servers, they must
     have access to truststores. In many cases, the most practical approach is to deploy truststores
     to all hosts in the cluster, as it may not be desirable to determine in advance the set of
     hosts on which clients will run.
Keystores for HDFS and YARN must be owned by the hadoop group, and have
     permissions 0440 (that is, readable by owner and group). Truststores must have
     permissions 0444 (that is, readable by all)
Cloudera Manager supports TLS/SSL configuration for HDFS and YARN at the service level. For
     each of these services, you must specify absolute paths to the keystore and truststore files.
     These settings apply to all hosts on which daemon roles of the service in question run.
     Therefore, the paths you choose must be valid on all hosts.An implication of this is that
      the keystore file names for a given service must be the same on all hosts. If, for example,
      you have obtained separate certificates for HDFS daemons on hosts
       node1.example.com and node2.example.com, you might have
      chosen to store these certificates in files called hdfs-node1.keystore and
       hdfs-node2.keystore (respectively). When deploying these keystores, you must
      give them both the same name on the target host — for example,
      hdfs.keystore.
Multiple daemons running on a host can share a certificate. For example, in case there is a
     DataNode and an Oozie server running on the same host, they can use the same certificate.



Configuring TLS/SSL for HDFSEnabling TLS/SSL on HDFS is required before it can be enabled on YARN.Configuring TLS/SSL for YARNIf you enabled TLS/SSL for HDFS, you must also enable it for YARN.Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services