Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for ZeppelinCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for Zeppelin
You can enable TLS manually for the Apache Zeppelin Server.

In Cloudera Manager, select the
                        Zeppelin service from the
                        Clusters drop-down menu.

In the Configuration tab, enter tls
                    into the search box.

Edit the following property fields as needed for your cluster and
                    environment:



Property
Description



Enable TLS/SSL for Zeppelin Server
Encrypt communication between clients and Zeppelin Server
                                        using Transport Layer Security (TLS) (formerly known as
                                        Secure Socket Layer (SSL)).


Zeppelin Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                        Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the
                                        server certificate and private key used for TLS/SSL. Used
                                        when Zeppelin Server is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The
                                        keystore must be in JKS format.


Zeppelin Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                        Password
The password for the Zeppelin Server JKS keystore
                                        file.


Zeppelin Server TLS/SSL Trust Store File
The location on disk of the trust store, in .jks format,
                                        used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that
                                        Zeppelin Server might connect to. This trust store must
                                        contain the certificate(s) used to sign the service(s)
                                        connected to. If this parameter is not provided, the default
                                        list of well-known certificate authorities is used
                                        instead.


Zeppelin Server TLS/SSL Trust Store Password
The password for the Zeppelin Server TLS/SSL Trust Store
                                        File. This password is not required to access the trust
                                        store; this field can be left blank. This password provides
                                        optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of
                                        trust stores are certificates, and certificates are public
                                        information.




Click Save Changes.

Restart the Zeppelin service.


Parent topic: Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for CDP Services