Showing Atlas Server statusCloudera Docs
Showing Atlas Server status
Cloudera Manager shows the status of the Atlas Server role
      running in a given cluster. To understand if the Atlas UI is up and working for users,
      check the health of the other services on which Atlas depends: HBase, Kafka, and Solr.
The high-level status that Cloudera Manager shows for Atlas indicates
        the health of the Atlas Service. If you are experiencing problems with
        the Atlas UI or with metadata not showing up as expected, check to make
        sure the dependent services are also healthy.
To view the high-level status of Atlas and its dependent services:

Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
          
          From CDP Public Cloud, access Cloudera Manager through your Data
        Lake.
 From CDP Private Cloud Base, access Cloudera Manager directly in your browser.

Choose
          Clusters > <cluster
            name>.
        The cluster detail page shows the high-level status of each service.
        Check Atlas, HBase, Kafka, and Solr.
        

Understanding Atlas status
The Atlas status bubbles up to a single health indicator, which appears
          in many places including the service name .
To see more detail of the Atlas status:
Click the links in the top-level status to drill into the recent
            health tests and events.
Drill into specific health test to open the detail page for the
            test. 

If the Atlas status is anything but a green check for "healthy", you
          can use the content of the page to identify the problem. Check the following:
If Atlas is stopped, was it stopped deliberately or did it
              shutdown on its own? To restart the service, see Restarting a Cloudera Runtime Service.
              To review what may have caused Atlas to shutdown, click the
              status icon to open a more detailed list of recent events.
If Atlas shows a red exclamation point for "bad" health, check to
              see if one of the services it depends upon is stopped: HBase, Kafka,
              and Solr all run in the same cluster to support Atlas.



Related informationCloudera Manager Health TestsViewing Service Status in              Cloudera ManagerParent topic: Configuring and Monitoring Atlas