Release SummaryCloudera Docs
Release Summary
This is the first release of Cloudera Observability for Cloudera Data Platform
  (CDP).
Cloudera Observability is CDP’s single pane of glass observability solution, continually
   discovering and collecting performance telemetry across data, applications, and infrastructure
   components running in all your CDP deployments on private and public clouds. It enables you to
   interactively explore and understand your existing environments, data services, workloads,
   clusters, and resources running in CDP. 
With advanced intelligent analytics and correlations, it provides insights and easy to follow
   recommendations that reduce time to resolution of complex issues, help manage and optimize costs,
   and improve performance. Cloudera Observability also supports better financial governance by
   tracking and reporting on the costs associated with your business’ cost centers.
Cloudera Observability helps Administrators and Developers to: 
Watch and protect against budget overruns with its financial
     governance capabilities, allowing you to define cost centers and chargeback reports.
Keep workloads and services healthy with active system monitoring, so
     you not only know what’s going on right now, you’ll be comparing to previous trends and
     historical analysis, to predict issues before they happen, receive alerts to take actions, and
     get automatic mitigations when possible.
Improve performance with automations that help things run as best as
     they can, helping you optimize resource utilization and improve performance. With
     recommendations, you'll get insights into how to tune, and with custom automatic actions, CDP
     can be configured to auto-tune, your way.
Maintain end to end health by identifying and eliminating service
     bottlenecks that impact performance, while also ensuring your entire system, from
     infrastructure to platform, and workload, is healthy and optimized.
Get actionable insights through self-service analytics, putting easy
     to use visualizations into everyone’s hands.

Cloudera Observability also helps you get better support. When telemetry is sent to the online
   service, it’s shareable with Cloudera technical support. This dramatically shortens the
   troubleshooting time and helps you partner with your support team to get faster time to
   resolution on the more complex issues that may arise. 
Cloudera Observability collects and visualizes a wide range of metrics and health tests,
   enabling you to do the following: 
Gain insights on current and completed workload jobs and queries, resource consumption, and
     system performance from a wide range of metrics. 
Identify bottlenecks, performance, and resource health issues from a wide range of health
     tests. 
Address performance issues with performance tuning and prescriptive guidance and
     recommendations. 
Gain visibility into the workload resource costs of your environment’s infrastructure with
     the Financial Governance Chargeback feature. 
Achieve faster resolution and minimal downtime for support cases by providing read-only
     troubleshooting access to Cloudera Support with the Expedited Support feature. 
Define workload thresholds and consumption rules, create actions and alerts, and securely
     control user access, with the Workload Views and Access Management features. 

Cloudera Observability has two tiers: 
Cloudera Observability Essential: Available free of
      charge, which provides a number of valuable capabilities for self-service troubleshooting and
      a limited set of mitigation and auto action features. Essential also
      supports expedited support case resolution.

Cloudera Observability Premium: A licensed tier that
      extends self-service insights further while providing full access to powerful, automated
      optimization.


In this release, we deliver observability covering Hive, Impala, MapReduce, Oozie, and Spark. 

Related informationWhat is Expedited SupportTriggering actions across jobs and queriesAnalyzing your environment costs with Cloudera Observability cost centersClassifying workloads for analysis with workload viewsManaging user access to workloadsHive, MapReduce, Oozie, and Spark Health ChecksImpala Health ChecksCloudera Observability Hive Cluster Metrics