Management of flow definition detailsCloudera Docs
Management of flow definition details
Learn the information that you can track in the Flow Definition
   Details pane. Also, learn how to import new version, download latest version, and
  delete your flow definitions.
You can track the following details of flow definitions in the Flow Definition
    Details pane:


Flow description – This field gives you additional information about
     the flow definition.noteYou add this description when you import the flow. You cannot edit it
      afterwards.
CRN – This field allows you to copy the CRN of the flow
     definition
Only show deployed versions – Select this option if you want to view
     only the deployed versions of a flow definition.
List of flow definition versions


Version – This column shows the version number of the flow
       definition. You can store multiple versions of a flow definition in the Flow
        Catalog.
Deployments – This column shows the number of deployments that
       belong to a specific version of a flow definition. Click a flow definition version row to
       deploy a new flow of that version. For more information, see Deploying
       Flows.
Deploy – Select to deploy the specific version of the flow
       definition.
Download – Select to download the JSON file of the specific version
       of a flow definition. This option is not available for the ReadyFlow type of flow
       definitions.
Last update – This field provides information about when the flow
       definition version was last updated and by which user. This section also includes the version
       comments entered by the user when the flow definition version was imported.
Deployments – This field shows you the number of deployments that
       belong to a flow definition. If you have the DFFlowAdmin role for the
       environments where the flow definition has been deployed, you can also see the list of the
       deployments.
CRN – This field enables you to copy the CRN number of the specific
       flow definition version.

Actions – Use this drop-down menu to import a new version or delete a
     flow definition.
Import New Version: Select to upload new versions of an existing
       flow definition to the Flow Catalog.
Download Latest Version: Select to download the JSON file of the
       latest version of a flow definition from the flow catalog.
Delete Flow Definition: Select to remove a flow definition from the
       flow catalog along with all its versions.




Parent topic: Accessing flow definitions