Creating filters to control optional measuresCloudera Docs
Creating filters to control optional measures

Before starting this work flow, complete the steps in Creating visuals with optional measures.

In the dashboard, click the Filters tab.

Click CREATE CUSTOM FILTER to create a second dashboard
          filter.




This creates a new filter in the filter area of the application,
            and opens the Settings modal window for that filter.


Click the Values tab and enter the following:


Under Title, enter Display Measures.
Under Output Parameter, enter mes. Note that this is
              the parameter from Creating visuals with optional measures.
Under Specified values, enter the following two rows:
Value: life_expectancy,
                    Label: Life Expectancy
Value: gdp_per_capita,
                    Label: GDP per Capita







In the Settings modal window, switch to the Display
            Settings tab.

Select Allow only one item to be selected at a time

Select Include an option for 'All'.

Click APPLY.

Name and save the dashboard.

Switch to application View mode and select World Regional
          Populations.
Optional: 
In the Display Country Details filter, select
          Country.

In the Display Measures filter, select Life
            Expectancy.




Note that the table now has a new column, life_expectancy.


To change the measure that appears in the visual, select GDP per
            Capita in the Display Measures filter.




Note that the additional column is now titled gdp_per_capita, not
              life_expectancy.
To check the parameters of the dashboard, hover the pointer over the
              Filter icon at the top right corner. They are:

dim: country
dim.alias: Country
mes: gdp_per_capita

You can scroll down to see the mes.alias: GDP per Capita
            parameter.

Optional: 
You can easily navigate between the permutations of filter outputs you create by using
          filter navigation controls at the top right corner.


