Setup Data Lake AccessCloudera Docs
Setup Data Lake Access
CML can access data tables stored in an AWS or Microsoft Azure Data Lake. As a CML 
        Admin, follow this procedure to set up the necessary permissions.

The instructions apply to Data Lakes on both AWS and Microsoft Azure. Follow the
                instructions that apply to your environment.


Cloud Provider Setup

Make sure the prerequisites for AWS or Azure are satisfied (see the
                        Related Topics for AWS environments and Azure environments). Then, create a
                        CDP environment as follows.



For environment logs, create an S3 bucket or ADLS Gen2 container.
noteFor ADLS Gen2, create a dedicated container for logs, and a
                                dedicated container for data, within the same account.


For environment storage, create an S3 bucket or ADLS Gen2
                            container.


For AWS, create AWS policies for each S3 bucket, and create IAM roles
                            (simple and instance profiles) for these policies.


For Azure, create managed identities for each of the personas, and
                            create roles to map the identities to the ADLS permissions.


For detailed information on S3 or ADLS, see Related information.

Environment Setup
In CDP, set up paths for logs and native data access to the S3 bucket or ADLS
                    Gen2 container. In the Environment Creation wizard, set the
                    following:



Logs Storage and Audits

Instance Profile - The IAM role or Azure identity that is
                                    attached to the master node of the Data Lake cluster. The
                                    Instance Profile enables unauthenticated access to the S3 bucket
                                    or ADLS container for logs.
Logs Location Base - The location in S3 or ADLS where
                                    environment logs are saved. noteThe instance profile or Azure
                                        identity must refer to the same logs location base in S3 or
                                        ADLS..
Ranger Audit Role - The IAM role or Azure identity that has S3
                                    or ADLS access to write Ranger audit events. Ranger uses Hadoop
                                    authentication, therefore it uses IDBroker to access the S3
                                    bucket or ADLS container, rather than using Instance profiles or
                                    Azure identities directly.



Data Access


Instance Profile - The IAM role or Azure identity that is
                                    attached to the IDBroker node of the Data Lake cluster. IDBroker
                                    uses this profile to assume roles on behalf of users and get
                                    temporary credentials to access S3 buckets or ADLS
                                    containers.
Storage Location Base - The S3 or ADLS location where data
                                    pertaining to the environment is saved.
Data Access Role - The IAM role or Azure identity that has
                                    access to read or write environment data. For example, Hive
                                    creates external tables by default in the CDP environments,
                                    where metadata is stored in HMS running in the Data Lake. The
                                    data itself is stored in S3 or ADLS. As Hive uses Hadoop
                                    authentication, it uses IDBroker to access S3 or ADLS, rather
                                    than using Instance profiles or Azure identities. Hive uses the
                                    data access role for storage access. noteThe data access role
                                        must have permissions to access the S3 or ADLS storage
                                        location.
ID Broker Mappings - These specify the mappings between the CDP
                                    user or groups to the AWS IAM roles or Azure roles that have
                                    appropriate S3 or ADLS access. This setting enables IDBroker to
                                    get appropriate S3 or ADLS credentials for the users based on
                                    the role mappings defined.noteThere is no limit to the number
                                        of mappings that one can define but each user can only be
                                        assigned to one of the role mappings.

This completes installation of the environment.


User Group Mappings
In CDP, you can assign users to groups to simplify permissions
                            management. For example, you could create a group called
                            ml-data-scientists, and assign two individual users to it, as shown
                            here. For instructions, see link.
                            

Sync usersWhenever you make changes to user and group
                                        mappings, make sure to sync the mappings with the
                                        authentication layer. In User Management > Actions, click
                                        Sync Users, and select the environment.



IDBroker
IDBroker allows an authenticated and authorized user to exchange a set
                    of credentials or a token for cloud vendor access tokens. You can also view and
                    update the IDBroker mappings at this location. IDBroker mappings can be accessed
                    through Environments > Manage Access. Click on the IDBroker Mappings tab. Click
                    Edit to edit or add mappings. When finished, sync the mappings to push the
                    settings from CDP to the IDBroker instance running inside the Data Lake of the
                    environment. 


At this point, CDP resources can access the AWS S3 buckets or
                            Azure ADLS storage.

Ranger

To get admin access to Ranger, users need the EnvironmentAdmin role, and that
                        role must be synced with the environment.
Click Environments > Env > Actions > Manage Access > Add User
Select EnvironmentAdmin resource role.
Click Update Roles
On the Environments page for the environment, in Actions, select
                                Synchronize Users to FreeIPA.
The permissions are now synchronized to the Data Lake, and you have
                        admin access to Ranger.

Update permissions in Ranger

In Environments > Env > Data Lake Cluster, click Ranger.
Select the Hadoop SQL service, and check that the users and
                            groups have sufficient permissions to access databases, tables, columns,
                            and urls.
 For example, a user can be part of these policies: 
all - database,table,column
all - url


This completes all configuration needed for CML to communicate
                            with the Data Lake. 

CML User Setup
Now, CML is able to communicate with the Data Lake. There are two
                                steps to get the user ready to work.

In Environments > Environment name > Actions > Manage Access >
                                    Add user, the Admin selects MLUser resource role for the
                                    user.
The User logs into the workspace in ML Workspaces > Workspace
                                    name, click Launch Workspace.

The user can now access the workspace.

Related informationAWS environmentsAzure environmentsParent topic: Connect to CDP Data Lake