Overview of the CDP SDK for JavaCloudera Docs
Overview of the CDP SDK for Java
You can use the CDP SDK for Java to integrate CDP services with your applications. 
  Use the CDP SDK to connect to CDP services and create and manage clusters and run jobs from your Java application or other data integration tools that you use in your organization.
Comprehensive Java documentation is available on Cloudera's Github. The CDP SDK
        repository is also available.
To use the CDP SDK for Java, you must have a CDP account and a user account or machine user account with the appropriate role and environment to enable you to perform your required tasks in CDP.


Prerequisites for using the CDP SDK for Java
Before you use the CDP SDK to perform the tasks from an application, we recommend that you first verify that you can perform the tasks on the CDP console or through the CLI.
 

   When you are able to successfully create clusters and run jobs on the Management Console or by using the CLI, use the CDP SDK to create clusters and run jobs from your application.
  

Using the CDP SDK for Java
You must download the SDK Jar file, set up your access key, create your application, and run the CDP SDK sample applications.To use the CDP SDK for Java, complete the following steps:

Download the latest version of the CDP SDK jar files from the CDP SDK
            repository. Set up your API access credentials. CDP uses an access key to manage access to CDP services through the CDP API. You must set up the API credentials for your application.


Use the Management Console to generate an access key. You must be a CDP administrator or have the IAM User role to generate an API access key.
                
If you are a CDP administrator, you can generate an access key for a user or
                  machine user account. For more information, see Generating an API access
                    key (for a long-lived API access key) or Logging into the CDP
                    CLI/SDK (for a shorter-lived access key.
If you are a user with the IAM User role, you can generate an access key for
                  your own user account. 

You can set up the API access key for your application in one of the following ways:
                
Environment variable. For an example of how to set up the API access key in an environment variable, see the source code in the CDPEnvironmentVariableCredentialsProvider.java file.
Java system variable. For an example of how to set up the API access key in a Java system variable, see the source code in the CDPSystemPropertiesCredentialsProvider.java file.
CDP credentials file. For an example of how to set up the API access key in a CDP profile, see the source code in the CDPProfileCredentialsProvider.java file.


Create your application. View or run the CDP SDK sample applications to understand how to use the CDP API to access CDP services.

