Troubleshooting DataFlow upgrade errorsCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting DataFlow upgrade errors
Learn how to recognize and address common errors with your Cloudera DataFlow (CDF)
    service and flow deployment upgrades.
Setting up kubectl to connect to the DataFlow Kubernetes
    cluster
It is helpful to have access to the DataFlow Kubernetes cluster using command line
    tools such as kubectl when you are troubleshooting deployment or upgrade
    failures. To set up kubectl access, follow these steps:

In DataFlow, from the Environments page, select the DataFlow service
          for which you want to add or remove user access. 
Click Manage DataFlow. 
From the Actions menu, click Manage Kubernetes API Server
      User Access. 
Add the AWS IAM role that you will authenticate as to the list of authorized users
     for DataFlow by entering the ARN in the Add User  dialog.
Use the Download Kubeconfig action to retrieve the kubeconfig file for
     connecting to your cluster.
Set up your kubectl to use the downloaded
      kubeconfig
     file:export KUBECONFIG=[***PATH/TO/DOWNLOADED/KUBECONFIG/FILE***]
Run kubectl get ns and validate that your output looks similar to: 



With kubectl being set up correctly, you are able to access NiFi and other
    DataFlow logs directly through the CLI.

Understanding upgrade failures
There are various reasons that may prevent an upgrade from happening. This document covers
        the following scenarios:

The upgrade fails upon initiation.
The upgrade starts but fails, and rollback is possible.
The upgrade starts but fails and rollback is not possible.


Upgrade fails on initiation
Symptom: When the upgrade fails to start, the status of the environment does not
        change to Upgrading and you receive an error message stating the
        cause of the failure.
Possible causes: The service is in one of the following states:

The service is in one of the following states:


Failed to Update


Failed to Update NiFi version


Any transitional / in-progress state




Any of the deployments is in one of the following states: 


New


Failed to Update


Failed to Update NiFi version


Any transitional / in progress state




How to fix it: Fix the error indicated in the error message, then retry the upgrade.
        If the upgrade still fails, contact Cloudera Support.

Upgrade fails and rollback is possible
Symptom: Upgrade rollback process starts. If the rollback is successful, the
          Status of the service returns to Good Health,
        CDF and NiFi versions return to their pre-upgrade values. If the rollback fails, the
          Status of both the CDF service and running deployments becomes
          Failed to Upgrade. The order in which this transition happens depends
        on where the rollback actually failed.
How to fix it: In the event of an upgrade failure, DataFlow determines if rollback
        is possible and automatically initiates it. No user intervention is required. 
If the rollback is successful:


After the rollback ends, from the Environments page, select the
            DataFlow service you were trying to upgrade and click the Alerts tab. Check
              Event History to see if there is anything obvious in there or something that
            narrows down the possible cause of the failure.


From the Dashboard page select running deployments that failed to
            upgrade and check Alerts>Event History to see if there is anything obvious in
            there or something that narrows down the possible cause of the failure.


Check the K8s cluster using CLI and try to fix errors based on the
            information you obtained from Event History in the previous steps.


Retry the upgrade. 


If the upgrade still fails contact Cloudera Support.


If the rollback fails:
The status of both the service and the running deployments changes to Failed
          to Update. The order in which they transition depends on where the rollback actually
        failed.
noteA DataFlow upgrade can only be rolled back if Kubernetes (K8s) was
        not upgraded.

Upgrade fails and rollback is not possible
Symptom: The status of the service, and shortly after the deployments, changes to
          Failed to Upgrade. The status icon on the service changes to
          Bad Health.
How to fix it:


 If K8s upgrade failed, check the Event History if there is anything
              obvious in there.


Check on the cloud provider side whether there is anything obvious as a
              reason for the failure. For example, check activity logs and node pools on Azure, or
              EKS cluster on AWS.


If the K8s upgrade succeeded, but the upgrade failed somewhere later, then
              the previous point in the "Upgrade fails and rollback is possible" can follow here
              (check the events and then the K8s cluster).


If you managed to pinpoint and fix the possible cause of the failure, retry
              the upgrade.


If you did not find the cause of the failure, or the upgrade still fails
              upon retry, Contact Cloudera Support.



Retrying an upgrade

On the DataFlow Dashboard select
            Environments from the left navigation pane.
Select the service where you want to retry the upgrade and click Manage
            DataFlow.
Click Actions > Retry Upgrade DataFlow.



