Offsets SubcommandCloudera Docs
Offsets Subcommand
Learn how to use the offsets subcommand of the
      srm-client command line tool.
important If any of the Kafka clusters
          that SRM connects to use any type of encryption or authentication, you must configure the
            srm-control tool before use. For more information, see Configuring srm-control.SRM automatically translates consumer group offsets between clusters. The offset mappings
      are created by SRM, but are not applied to the consumer groups of the target cluster directly.
      Consumers can be migrated from one cluster to another without losing any progress by using the
        offsets subcommand on the target cluster to export the translated offsets
      of the source cluster. For
      example:srm-control offsets --source [SOURCE_CLUSTER] --target [TARGET_CLUSTER] --group [GROUP1] --export > out.csv
Exported
      offsets can then be applied to the consumer groups in the target cluster with the
        kafka-consumer-groups tool. Alternatively, this process can be automated by
      enabling automatic group offset synchronization. If this feature is enabled, the translated
      offsets are automatically exported from the source cluster and applied to the target
      cluster.
For detailed steps on cluster migration, see Migrating Consumer Groups Between
        Clusters. For more information regarding automatic group offset synchronization, see
        Configuring automatic group offset synchronization.
Client Override Options
The offset subcommand supports client override options. Client override options allow users
        to temporarily specify or override configuration properties. These options also enable users
        to issue srm-control commands even if the SRM’s configuration file is not
        available on the host that the command is being issued from. While it is possible to specify
        a range of properties with the client override options, and they can prove to be a powerful
        tool in certain scenarios, Cloudera recommends that you use Cloudera Manager to manage
        client configuration options.
The following client override options are available: 
--bootstrap-servers: Specifies the bootstraps servers.
--props: Specifies client configuration properties.

note
Client override options always take precedence over the configuration set in Cloudera
          Manager. 

A simple example of using client override options is when you want to change the bootstrap
        server. This can be done in two ways. 
You can specify the bootstrap server with the --bootstrap-servers option.
        srm-control --bootstrap-servers localhost:9092 offsets --source [SOURCE_CLUSTER] --group [GROUP] --export > out.csv
Alternatively, you can use the --props option together with the
          bootstrap.servers Kafka property to define the bootstrap server.
        srm-control --props bootstrap.servers=localhost:9092 offsets --source [SOURCE_CLUSTER] --group [GROUP] --export > out.csv


Related informationHow to Set up Failover and FailbackMigrating Consumer Groups Between ClustersConfiguring automatic group offset synchronizationParent topic: srm-control