Migrating Consumer Groups Between ClustersCloudera Docs
Migrating Consumer Groups Between Clusters
Learn how to migrate consumers between clusters. 
If a primary Kafka cluster is temporarily unavailable, you can
      migrate mission-critical workloads to a secondary Kafka cluster (failover). When the primary
      cluster is restored, you can migrate back (failback). The steps for migrating consumers in a
      failover or failback scenario are identical. However, depending on the scenario, your source
      and target clusters will be different. During failover you migrate consumers from primary to
      secondary, while during failback you migrate consumers from secondary to primary. 



Make sure that the clusters that you are migrating consumers between are set up with
            bidirectional replication.
Verify that all mission critical consumer groups and topics, including the ones on the
            secondary cluster are whitelisted.
The steps you need to take differ depending on whether automatic group offset
            synchronization is enabled. Check SRM's configuration to see if the feature is enabled.
            For more information, see Configuring automatic group offset
              synchronization



 Migrate consumer group offsets. If automatic group offset
          synchronization is disabled follow the steps provided under Manual migration. If automatic
          group offset synchronization is enabled, follow the steps under Automatic migration.Manual migrationAutomatic migration
Export the translated consumer group offsets of the source
                cluster.srm-control offsets --source [SOURCE_CLUSTER] --target [TARGET_CLUSTER] --group [GROUP1] --export > out.csv
Reset consumer offsets on the target
                cluster.kafka-consumer-groups --bootstrap-server [TARGET_BROKER:PORT] --reset-offsets --group [GROUP1] --execute --from-file out.csv

If automatic group offset synchronization is
              enabled, the translated offsets of the source cluster are already applied on the
              target cluster. Continue with Step 2.importantAlthough translated offsets are applied, depending on the
                offset group synchronization frequency configured
                  (sync.group.offsets.interval.seconds and
                  emit.checkpoints.interval.seconds), you might have outdated
                offsets applied. Cloudera recommends that you follow the steps for manual migration
                if you are unsure whether the latest offsets were applied or if having the latest
                offsets is critical for your use case.Start consumers on the target cluster.

Consumers automatically resume processing messages on the target cluster where they left
        off on the source cluster.


Related informationOffsets SubcommandParent topic: How to Set up Failover and Failback