List of required configuration parameters for the Kafka to Snowflake ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
List of required configuration parameters for the
      Kafka to Snowflake ReadyFlow
When deploying the Kafka to Snowflake ReadyFlow, you have to provide the following parameters. Use the
  information you collected in Prerequisites.
Table 1. Kafka to Snowflake ReadyFlow configuration parameters

 Parameter Name
Description



CDP Workload User
Specify the CDP machine user or workload user name that
       you want to use to authenticate to Kafka. Ensure this user has the appropriate access rights
       to the source Kafka topic.


CDP Workload User Password
Specify the password of the CDP machine user or workload user you
       are using to authenticate against Kafka.


CSV Delimiter
If your source data is CSV, specify the delimiter here.


Data Input Format
Specify the format of your input data. You can use "CSV", "JSON"
       or "AVRO" with this ReadyFlow.
CSV
JSON
AVRO



Filter Rule
Specify the filter rule expressed in SQL to filter streaming
       events for the destination database. Records matching the filter will be written to the
       destination database. The default value forwards all records.


Kafka Broker Endpoint
Specify the Kafka bootstrap server.


Kafka Consumer Group ID
The name of the consumer group used for the source topic you are
       consuming from.


Kafka Source Topic
Specify a topic name that you want to read from.


Kafka Schema Name
Specify the schema name to be looked up in the CDP Schema
       Registry for the source Kafka topic.


Schema Registry Hostname
Specify the hostname of the Schema Registry you want to connect
       to. This must be the direct hostname of the Schema Registry itself, not the Knox
       Endpoint.


Snowflake Account Name
Specify the Snowflake account name.


Snowflake Organization
Specify the Snowflake organization name.


Snowflake Pipe
Specify the Snowflake pipe.


Snowflake Private Key File
Upload the Snowflake private key file.


Snowflake Private Key Password
Specify the password for the Snowflake private key.


Snowflake User Name
Specify your Snowflake user name.


Snowflake User Password
Specify your Snowflake user password.


Snowflake Warehouse
Specify your Snowflake warehouse. The default value is
        COMPUTE_WH.


Table Name
Specify the Snowflake table name you want to write to.


Target Database Name
Specify the Snowflake database you want to write to.


Target Schema Name
Specify the schema of the Snowflake database. The default value
       is PUBLIC.



Related conceptsPrerequisitesRelated informationDeploying a ReadyFlow