Configuring Kerberos AuthenticationCloudera Docs
Configuring Kerberos Authentication
Impala supports an enterprise-grade authentication system called
    Kerberos. Kerberos provides strong security benefits including capabilities
    that render intercepted authentication packets unusable by an attacker. It
    virtually eliminates the threat of impersonation by never sending a user's
    credentials in cleartext over the network.
Requirements for Using Impala with Kerberos
important


 If you plan to use Impala in your cluster, you must configure
              your KDC to allow tickets to be renewed, and you must configure
                krb5.conf to request renewable tickets.
              Typically, you can do this by adding the
                max_renewable_life setting to your realm in
                kdc.conf, and by adding the
                renew_lifetime parameter to the
                libdefaults section of
                krb5.conf. 



 Impala supports the Cloudera ODBC driver and the Kerberos interface
        provided. To use Kerberos through the ODBC driver, the host type must be
        set depending on the level of the ODBD driver: 


SecImpala for the ODBC 1.0 driver. 

SecBeeswax for the ODBC 1.2 driver. 
 Blank for the ODBC 2.0 driver or higher, when connecting to a
          secure cluster. 

HS2NoSasl for the ODBC 2.0 driver or higher, when
          connecting to a non-secure cluster. 


Enabling Kerberos in Impala-shell
 To enable Kerberos in the Impala shell, start the
          impala-shell command using the -k
        flag. 

Configuring Impala to Support Kerberos Security
 Enabling Kerberos authentication for Impala involves steps that can be
        summarized as follows: 

 Creating service principals for Impala and the HTTP service.
          Principal names take the form:
              serviceName/fully.qualified.domain.name@KERBEROS.REALM

 Creating, merging, and distributing key tab files for these
          principals. 
 Editing /etc/default/impala (in cluster not
          managed by Cloudera Manager), or editing the
            Security settings in the Cloudera Manager
          interface, to accommodate Kerberos authentication. 


Enabling Access to Internal Impala APIs for Kerberos Users
 For applications that need direct access to Impala
        APIs, without going through the HiveServer2 or Beeswax interfaces, you
        can specify a list of Kerberos users who are allowed to call those APIs.
        By default, the impala and hdfs users
        are the only ones authorized for this kind of access. Any users not
        explicitly authorized through the
          internal_principals_whitelist configuration setting
        are blocked from accessing the APIs. This setting applies to all the
        Impala-related daemons, although currently it is primarily used for HDFS
        to control the behavior of the catalog server. 

Mapping Kerberos Principals to Short Names for Impala
 Impala can support the additional mapping rules that will be inserted
        before rules generated from the list of trusted realms and before the
        default rule. The support is disabled by default in Impala. 
To enable mapping Kerberos principals to short names:

In Cloudera Manager, select the Impala service.
In the Configuration tab, select
            Impala (Service-Wide) in Scope and
            Advanced in Category.
Select the Use HDFS Rules to Map Kerberos Principals to
            Short Names field.
Click Save Changes, and restart the Impala
          service.



