Configuring JDBC for ImpalaCloudera Docs
Configuring JDBC for Impala
Download and configure the JDBC driver to access Impala from a Java program that you
    write, or a Business Intelligence or similar tool that uses JDBC to communicate with database
    products. 

 The following are the default ports that Impala server accepts JDBC connections through:
          
Protocol

Default Port

Flag to Specify an Alternate Port


HTTP
28000
‑‑hs2_http_port


Binary TCP
21050
‑‑hs2_port



 Make sure the port for the protocol you are using is available for communication with
        clients, for example, that it is not blocked by firewall software. 
 If your JDBC client software connects to a different port, specify that alternative port
        number with the flag in the above table when starting the impalad. 


Configure the JDBC port.
Impala server accepts JDBC connections through port 21050 by default. Make sure this
          port is available for communication with other hosts on your network, for example, that it
          is not blocked by firewall software. If your JDBC client software connects to a different
          port, specify that alternative port number in the Impala Daemon HiveServer2
            Portfield in Cloudera Manager, in the Configuration
          tab.

Install the JDBC driver.
Impala has been tested using the Impala JDBC driver version 2.5.45 and 2.6.2. Cloudera
          recommends that you use one of these two versions with Impala.

Enable Impala JDBC support on client systems.

Establish JDBC connections.

 The JDBC driver class depends on which driver you select. 

Using the Cloudera JDBC Connector (recommended):

 Depending on the level of the JDBC API your application is targeting, you can use the
            following fully-qualified class names (FQCNs): 


com.cloudera.impala.jdbc41.Driver


com.cloudera.impala.jdbc41.DataSource




com.cloudera.impala.jdbc4.Driver


com.cloudera.impala.jdbc4.DataSource




com.cloudera.impala.jdbc3.Driver


com.cloudera.impala.jdbc3.DataSource


 The connection string has the following format: 
jdbc:impala://Host:Port[/Schema];Property1=Value;Property2=Value;...
 The port value is typically 21050 for Impala. 


 To connect to an instance of Impala that requires Kerberos authentication, use a
            connection string of the form
                jdbc:impala://host:port/;principal=principal_name.
            The principal must be the same user principal you used when starting Impala.
 To connect to an instance of Impala that requires LDAP authentication, use a
            connection string of the form
                jdbc:impala://host:port/db_name;user=ldap_userid;password=ldap_password. 
 To connect to an instance of Impala over HTTP, specify the HTTP port, 28000 by
            default, and transportMode=http in the connection string.
            
          
noteTo establish a connection with an Impala instance from your client, using any
            authentication mode, you must use the connection string jdbc:impala.
            Using the connection string jdbc:hive2 is not recommended and is not
            supported.
For updated information on the version of the JDBC driver you are using and for
            connection string examples for different supported authentications, refer to the link
            provided under Related Information.



Related information"Cloudera Enterprise Connector Documentation"