Enabling Kerberos authentication and RPC encryptionCloudera Docs
Enabling Kerberos authentication and RPC encryption
You must already have a secure Cloudera Manager cluster with Kerberos authentication
        enabled.

In Cloudera Manager, navigate to Kudu >  Configuration.

In the Search field, type Kerberos to show the relevant
                    properties.

Find and edit the following properties according to your cluster
                    configuration:



 Field 
 Usage Notes 




Kerberos Principal

 Set to the default principal, kudu.
                                        Currently, Kudu does not support configuring a custom
                                        service principal for Kudu processes. 



Enable Secure Authentication And
                                            Encryption

 Select this checkbox to enable authentication and RPC
                                        encryption between all Kudu clients and servers, as well as
                                        between individual servers. Only enable this property after
                                        you have configured Kerberos. If this is not
                                            selected, security is not enforced but secured clients
                                            are not rejected either and the connection will be
                                            encrypted if both sides support it.




Click Save Changes.
An error message displayed that tells you the Kudu keytab is
                    missing.

Navigate to Administration >  Security.

Select the Kerberos Credentials tab.

On this page you will see a list of the existing Kerberos principals for
                        services running on the cluster.


Click Generate Missing
                        Credentials
Once the Generate Missing Credentials command has finished running, you
                    will see the Kudu principal added to the list.


Parent topic: Configuring a secure Kudu cluster using Cloudera Manager