Configuring coarse-grained authorization with ACLsCloudera Docs
Configuring coarse-grained authorization with ACLs
The coarse-grained authorization can be configured with the following two ACLs: the
            Superuser Access Control List and the User Access Control List. The
            Superuser ACL is the list of all the superusers that can access the cluster.
        User-level access can be controlled by using the User ACL. By default, all the users
        can access the clusters. But when you enable authentication using Kerberos, only the users
        who are able to authenticate successfully can access the cluster.

Go to the Kudu service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Category > Security.

In the Search field, type ACL to show the relevant
                    properties.

Edit the following properties according to your cluster configuration:



 Field 
 Usage Notes 




Superuser Access Control List

 Add a comma-separated list of superusers who can access
                                        the cluster. By default, this property is left blank. 
                                            '*' indicates that all authenticated users will be given
                                            superuser access. 




User Access Control List

 Add a comma-separated list of users who can access the
                                        cluster. By default, this property is set to '*'.  The
                                            default value of '*' allows all users
                                            access to the cluster. However, if authentication is
                                            enabled, this will restrict access to only those users
                                            who are able to successfully authenticate using
                                            Kerberos. Unauthenticated users on the same network as
                                            the Kudu servers will be unable to access the cluster. 
 Add the impala user to this list to
                                            allow Impala to query data in Kudu. You might choose to
                                            add any other relevant usernames if you want to give
                                            access to Spark Streaming jobs. 





Click Save Changes.


Parent topic: Configuring a secure Kudu cluster using Cloudera Manager