CDW stored proceduresCloudera Docs
CDW stored procedures

Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) supports Hive Hybrid
   Procedural SQL (HPL/SQL). HPL/SQL is an Apache open source procedural
  extension for SQL for Hive users. You connect over
   JDBC to CDW from a client to run HPL/SQL queries. You can also run stored procedures from Hue in
   CDW.
HPL/SQL includes imperative programming structures (variables, procedures, control
   flow, and exceptions), and is typically used for ETL. The HPL/SQL language understands the syntax
   and semantics of most procedural SQL dialects, such as Oracle PL/SQL. 
HPL/SQL has its own grammar. For more information about the HPL/SQL language, see the
   HPL/SQL Reference.
HPL/SQL architecture
HPL/SQL has been re-architected from a command line tool to an integrated part of HiveServer
    (HS2). From a JDBC client, such as Beeline, you
     connect to HiveServer through CDW in CDP Public Cloud. The interpreter executes the abstract syntax tree (AST) from the parser. Hive
    metastore securely stores the function and procedure code permanently. The procedure is loaded
    and cached on demand to the interpreter's memory when needed. You can close the session or
    restart Hive without losing the definitions.



You can enable and use HPL/SQL from any host or third-party tool that can make a JDBC
    connection to HiveServer. Beeline is a popular client for use with HPL/SQL because other
    third-party tools do not show you some of the error messages about syntax mistakes.

Enabling HPL/SQL in the beeline connection string
After setting up a client to connect to CDW, you
    append mode=hplsql to the JDBC URL that connects the client to CDW:
beeline -u "jdbc:hive2://<HiveServer host>:10000/default;mode=hplsql"
When the client connects to HiveServer in CDW
    configuring this mode, HPL/SQL is enabled; otherwise, HPL/SQL is disabled.

HPL/SQL key features

Flow of Control Statements (FOR, WHILE, IF, CASE, LOOP, LEAVE, RETURN)
Functions, procedures, and packages
Built-in functions (string manipulations, datetime functions, conversions)
Exception handling and conditions
Constants and variable, assignment (DECLARE count INT := 1)
Processing results using a CURSOR
UDF to run HPL/SQL scripts from Hive queries
     (SELECT hplsql('mycustomfunc(:1)', name) FROM users;)
Bulk data processing with BULK COLLECT statement


HPL/SQL limitations

Some of the Hive specific CREATE TABLE parameters are missing.
No colon syntax to parametrize SQL strings.
No quoted string literals.
No GOTO and Label.
EXECUTE does not have output parameters.
Some complex data types, such as Arrays and Records are not supported.
No object-oriented extension.
Data Analytics Studio (DAS) does not support HPL/SQL.



Related informationHPL/SQL ReferenceSetting up a CDW clientAs a Hive user who connects to CDW from a client, you need to know how to set up the         client for using HPL/SQL.Creating a functionYou need to know the syntax of HPL/SQL, which closely resembles Oracle’s PL/SQL. An         example of creating a function and calling it in a Hive SELECT statement demonstrates the         HPL/SQL basics.Using the cursor to return record setsYou use a cursor to return recordsets from stored procedures and functions. A cursor         defines a set of rows and row-by-row operations on the set. You need to know how to open a         cursor, fetch data into local variables row-by-row, and close a cursor. Stored procedure examplesYou see by example some of the frequently used and useful HPL/SQL code. HPL/SQL is an Apache open source procedural extension for SQL for Hive     users.