Query schedulingCloudera Docs
Query scheduling
Apache Hive scheduled queries is a simple, secure way to create, manage, and monitor
    scheduled jobs. You can replace OS-level schedulers like cron, Apache Oozie, or Apache Airflow
    with scheduled queries. 
Using SQL statements, you can schedule Hive queries to run on a recurring basis, monitor query
      progress, and optionally disable a query schedule. You can run queries to ingest data
      periodically, refresh materialized views, replicate data, and perform other repetitive tasks.
      For example, you can insert data from a stream into a transactional table every 10 minutes,
      refresh a materialized view used for BI reporting every hour, and replicate data from one
      cluster to another on a daily basis.
A Hive scheduled query consists of the following parts:
A unique name for the schedule
The SQL statement to be executed
The execution schedule defined by a Quartz cron expression. 

Quartz cron expressions are expressive and flexible. For instance, expressions can describe
      simple schedules such as every 10 minutes, but also an execution happening at 10 AM on the
      first Sunday of the month in January, February in 2021, 2022. You can describe common
      schedules in an easily comprehensible format, for example every 20 minutes or every day at
      ‘3:25:00’.
Operation
A scheduled query belongs to a namespace, which is a collection of HiveServer (HS2) instances
        that are responsible for executing the query. Scheduled queries are stored in the Hive
        metastore. The metastore stores scheduled queries, the status of ongoing and previously
        executed statements, and other information. HiveServer periodically polls the metastore to
        retrieve scheduled queries that are due to be executed. If you run multiple HiveServer
        roles, the metastore guarantees that only one of them executes a certain scheduled query at
        any given time.
You create, alter, and drop scheduled queries using dedicated SQL statements. 


Related informationApache Hive Language Manual--Scheduled QueriesEnabling scheduled queriesYou need to know how to enable and disable scheduled queries and understand how the     default state can prevent you from running a query unintentionally.Periodically rebuilding a materialized view Using materialized views can enhance query performance. You need to refresh         materialized view contents when new data is added to the underlying table. Instead of         rebuilding the materialized view manually, you can schedule this task. Rebuilding occurs         periodically and  transparently to users. Getting scheduled query information and monitor the queryAfter you create a scheduled query you can access information about it in the             scheduled_queries table of the Hive information schema. You can also         use the information schema to monitor scheduled query execution.