Partitions and performanceCloudera Docs
Partitions and performance
A brief description of partitions and the performance benefits includes characters you
  must avoid when creating a partition. Examples of creating a partition and inserting data in a
  partition introduce basic partition syntax. Best practices for partitioning are
  mentioned.
A table you create without partitioning puts the data in a single directory. Partitioning
   divides the data into multiple directories. Queries of one or more columns based on the
   directories can run faster. Lengthy full table scans are avoided. Only data in the relevant
   directory is scanned. For example, a school_records table partitioned on a
    year column, segregates values by year into separate directories. A
    WHERE condiition such as YEAR=2020, YEAR IN
    (2020,2019), or YEAR BETWEEN 2001 AND 2010 scans only the data in the
   appropriate directory to resolve the query. Using partitions typically improves query
   performance.
In a SQL query, you define the partition as shown in the following example:
   CREATE TABLE sale(id in, amount decimal) PARTITIONED BY (xdate string, state string);
   To insert data into this table, you specify the partition key for fast loading:
   INSERT INTO sale (xdate='2016-03-08', state='CA') SELECT * FROM staging_table WHERE xdate='2016-03-08' AND state='CA'; You
   do not need to specify dynamic partition columns. Hive generates a partition specification if you
   enable dynamic partitions. 
Examples of a query on partitioned data
INSERT INTO sale (xdate, state)
SELECT * FROM staging_table;
Follow these best practices when you partition tables and query partitioned tables:

Never partition on a unique ID.
Size partitions to greater than or equal to 1 GB on average.
Design queries to process not more than 1000 partitions.


Invalid Characters in a Partition Name
When you create a partition, do not use the following characters in a partition name:
colon
question mark
percent

If you use these characters in a partition name, your directories will be named using the URL
    encoding of these characters, as described in "Why some special characters should not be used
     in a partition name in Hive/Impala."


Related informationWhy some special characters should not be used in a partition name in Hive/ImpalaRepairing partitions manually using MSCK repairThe MSCK REPAIR TABLE command was designed to manually add partitions that are added         to or removed from the file system, but are not present in the Hive metastore.