Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Private Cloud BaseCloudera Docs
Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Private Cloud Base
Replication Manager is a simple, easy-to-use service in Cloudera Manager. You can use
        this service to copy and migrate data from CDH clusters and CDP Private Cloud Base clusters to CDP Private Cloud Base clusters. You can use its feature-rich data
        movement capability to move existing data and metadata between clusters to fuel new
        workloads. 
Replication Manager replicates: 
HDFS, Hive, and Impala data, and supports Sentry to Ranger replication from CDH
                    (version 5.10 and higher) clusters to CDP Private Cloud Base (version 7.0.3 and higher) clusters.
HDFS and Hive external tables from CDP Private Cloud Base
                    (version 7.1.1 and higher) clusters to CDP Private Cloud Base (version 7.1.1 and higher)
                    clusters.
Hive ACID data and metadata and Ozone buckets (using Cloudera Manager APIs)
                    between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 and higher clusters using Cloudera Manager
                    version 7.7.1 or higher.



Replication Manager in CDP Private Cloud BaseReplication Manager is a service in Cloudera Manager. You can create replication     policies in this service to replicate data across data centers for various use cases which     include disaster recovery scenarios, running hybrid workloads, migrating data to/from cloud, or     a generic backup/restore scenario. You can also create HDFS or HBase snapshot policies to take     snapshots of HDFS directories and HBase tables respectively.Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud BaseReplication Manager replicates HDFS, Hive external tables, Impala data, Hive ACID     tables, and data in Ozone buckets.Port requirements for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud BaseBefore you create replication policies in Replication Manager, ensure that the     following ports are open and accessible on the source hosts and CDP Private Cloud Base hosts to allow communication between the source and     destination Cloudera Manager servers and the HDFS, Hive, MapReduce, and YARN hosts, as     required.Prepare to replicate using replication policiesBefore you use Replication Manager, you must understand some of the requirements about     data replication and configure the parameters as necessary.HDFS replication policiesHDFS replication enables you to copy (replicate) your HDFS data from one HDFS service     to another, synchronizing the data set on the destination service with the data set on     the source service, based on a specified replication policy. The destination service must     be managed by the Cloudera Manager Server where the replication is being set up, and the source     service can be managed by that same server or by a peer Cloudera Manager Server. You can also     replicate HDFS data within a cluster by specifying different source and destination     directories.Hive external table replication policiesHive/Impala replication policies enable you to copy (replicate) your Hive metastore and     data from one cluster to another and synchronize the Hive metastore and data set on the     'destination' cluster with the source, based on a specified replication policy. Hive ACID table replication policiesYou can create the Hive ACID table replication policies in Replication Manager to         copy ACID tables between CDP Private Cloud Base clusters for backup,         load balancing, and other purposes. Ozone replication policiesApache Ozone is a scalable, distributed, and high performance object store optimized for     big data workloads and can handle billions of objects of varying sizes. Ozone storage is     co-located on HDFS. You can create Ozone replication policies in CDP Private Cloud Base     Replication Manager to replicate data in Ozone buckets between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8     clusters or higher using Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 or higher.Managing replication policiesWhen you create a new replication policy, it is automatically enabled. If you disable a     replication policy, it can be re-enabled at a later time. You can enable, disable, or delete one     or more replication policies at a time.Troubleshooting replication policies between on-premises clustersThe troubleshooting scenarios in this topic help you to troubleshoot the replication   policies that you create between on-premises clusters in Replication Manager.SnapshotsYou can create HBase and HDFS snapshots using Cloudera Manager or by using the     command-line.