Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud BaseCloudera Docs
Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud Base
Replication Manager replicates HDFS, Hive external tables, Impala data, Hive ACID
    tables, and data in Ozone buckets.
Replicate data from CDH and CDP Private Cloud Base source clusters
The following table lists the source and destination clusters, lowest supported versions of
        Cloudera Manager, and the services that are available for each supported cloud provider for
        CDH source clusters:


Source cluster
Lowest supported source Cloudera Manager version
Lowest supported source Cloudera Runtime version
Lowest supported destination cluster version
Supported services on Replication Manager



CDH 5CDH 6
6.3.0
5.10
CDP Private Cloud Base 7.0.3
HDFS, Sentry to Ranger, Hive external tables


The following table lists the source and destination clusters, lowest supported versions of
        Cloudera Manager, and the services that are available for each supported cloud provider for
        CDP Private Cloud Base source clusters:


Source cluster
Lowest supported source Cloudera Manager version
Lowest supported source Cloudera Runtime version
Destination cluster
Supported services on Replication Manager



CDP Private Cloud Base
7.1.1
7.1.1
CDP Private Cloud Base


HDFS

Hive external tables





CDP Private Cloud Base
7.7.1
7.1.8
CDP Private Cloud Base


Hive ACID tables
Use Cloudera Manager APIs to replicate Ozone buckets.




CDP Private Cloud Base
7.7.1 CHF4
7.1.8 CHF4
CDP Private Cloud Base
Ozone buckets


important
Hive external table replication policies do not support managed to managed table
          replication. When you replicate from a CDH cluster to a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster,
          Replication Manager converts managed tables to external tables. Therefore, to replicate
          managed tables (ACID) and external tables in a database successfully, you must perform the
          following steps in the order shown below:

Create Hive ACID table replication policy for the database to replicate the
            managed data.
After the replication completes, create the Hive external table replication
            policy to replicate the external tables in the database. 


tipEnsure that the target database name is the same as the
        source database name, otherwise issues appear during or after data replication.

Replicate data from HDP 2 and HDP 3 source clusters
Replicating to and from HDP to Cloudera Manager 7.x is not supported by Replication
        Manager. However, you can replicate data using other methods. The following table lists the
        methods and the supported data replications to CDP Private Cloud Base clusters that are
        supported:
Table 1. Replicate data from HDP 2 and HDP 3 source clusters

Lowest supported source version
Services that require alternate replication methods



HDP 2.6.5
HDFS. Use DistCp to replicate data.


HDP 3.1.1
HDFS. Use DistCp to replicate data.


HDP 3.1.1


HBase.Use HBase replication to replicate HBase
                      data. 

Hive external tables. For information to replicate data, contact
                      Cloudera Support.





HDP 3.1.5
Hive ACID tables to CDP 7.1.6 and higher clusters. Use REPL commands to replicate data. noteRequires HDP
                  3.1.5 hotfixes. 



Supported replication scenarios

Supported features


Supports replication to and from Amazon S3 from CDH 5.14+ and Cloudera
                Manager version 5.13+. Replication Manager does not support S3 as a source or
                  destination when S3 is configured to use SSE-KMS.
Supports replication to and from Microsoft ADLS Gen1 from CDH 5.13+ and
                Cloudera Manager 5.15, 5.16, 6.1+.
Supports replication to and from Microsoft ADLS Gen2 (ABFS) from CDH
                5.13+ and Cloudera Manager 6.1+.
Supports snapshots from CDH 5.15+ and Cloudera Manager 5.15+.


Starting in Cloudera Manager 6.1.0, Replication Manager ignores Hive tables backed by
            Kudu during replication. The change does not affect functionality since Replication
            Manager does not support tables backed by Kudu. This change was made to guard against
            data loss due to how the Hive Metastore, Impala, and Kudu interact.
Sentry-related replication
To perform Sentry to Ranger replication using HDFS and Hive external table replication
            policies, you must have installed Cloudera Manager version 6.3.1 and higher on the
            source cluster and Cloudera Manager version 7.1.1 and higher on the target cluster. 
When the source cluster is Sentry-enabled and you want to run HDFS replication
            policies, use the hdfs user to run the replication policy. The replication policy
            copies the permissions of replicated files and tables to the target cluster. To use any
            other user account, make sure that you configure the user account to bypass Sentry ACLs
            during replication. 
When you create a Hive external table replication policy, choose the appropriate
            options to ensure that the Sentry permissions are migrated to Ranger permissions. The
            Replication Manager uses the authzmigrator tool to move data from Sentry to Ranger
            during Hive external table replication.
Kerberos
Replication Manager supports the following replication scenarios when Kerberos
            authentication is used on a cluster:
Secure source to a secure destination.
Insecure source to an insecure destination.
Insecure source to a secure destination. The following requirements must be met
                for this scenario:
When a destination cluster has multiple source clusters, all the source
                    clusters must either be secure or insecure. Replication Manager does not support
                    a mix of secure and insecure source clusters.
The destination cluster must run Cloudera Manager 7.x or higher.
 The source cluster must run a compatible Cloudera Manager version. 
This replication scenario requires additional configuration. For more
                    information, see Replicating from unsecure to secure
                      clusters. 


Transport Layer Security (TLS)
You can use TLS with Replication Manager. Additionally, Replication Manager supports
            replication scenarios where TLS is enabled for non-Hadoop services (Hive/Impala) and TLS
            is disabled Hadoop services (such as HDFS,YARN, and MapReduce). 
Apache Knox
When Cloudera Manager is configured with Knox and the source and target clusters are
            Knox-SSO enabled, you must ensure that you use the Cloudera Manager port in the peer URL
            when you add the source and target clusters as peers.



Parent topic: Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Private Cloud Base