Replicating data to Impala clustersCloudera Docs
Replicating data to Impala clusters
Impala metadata replication is performed as a part of Hive replication. Impala
    replication is only supported between two CDH clusters. The Impala and Hive services must be
    running on both clusters. 
Replicating Impala metadata
To enable Impala metadata replication, set the Advanced > Replicate Impala Metadata option to Yes during Hive external table replication
        policy creation. After the replication job completes, you can view the Impala UDFs
        (user-defined functions) on the target cluster, just as on the source cluster. As part of
        replicating the UDFs, the binaries in which they are defined are also replicated.
noteTo run queries or execute DDL statements on tables that have been replicated to a
        destination cluster, you must run the Impala INVALIDATE METADATA statement on the
        destination cluster to prevent queries from failing. 

Invalidating Impala metadata
For Impala clusters that do not use LDAP authentication, configure Advanced > Invalidate Impala Metadata on Destination during Hive external table replication policy creation so that the
        replication job automatically invalidates Impala metadata after replication completes. If

        the clusters use Sentry, the Impala user should have permissions to run INVALIDATE
          METADATA. 
The configuration causes the Hive/Impala replication job to run the Impala
          INVALIDATE METADATA statement per table on the destination cluster after
        completing the replication. The statement purges the metadata of the replicated tables and
        views within the destination cluster's Impala upon completion of replication, allowing other
        Impala clients at the destination to query these tables successfully with accurate results.
        However, this operation is potentially unsafe if DDL operations are being performed on any
        of the replicated tables or views while the replication is running. In general, directly
        modifying replicated data/metadata on the destination is not recommended. Ignoring this can
        lead to unexpected or incorrect behavior of applications and queries using these tables or
        views.
noteIf the source contains UDFs, you must run the INVALIDATE METADATA
        statement manually and without any tables specified even if you configure the automatic
        invalidation.
Alternatively, you can run the INVALIDATE METADATA statement manually for
        replicated tables. 


Parent topic: Hive external table replication policies