Prepare to create Hive ACID table replication policiesCloudera Docs
Prepare to create Hive ACID table replication policies
Before you create a Hive ACID table replication policy, you must prepare the clusters
        for replication.


Replication Manager requires a valid license. To understand more about Cloudera
                    license requirements, see Managing Licenses.
Minimum required role - Replication Administrator or Full
                    Administrator.
Before you create replication policies, ensure that the source cluster and
                    target cluster are supported by Replication Manager. For information about
                    supported clusters and supported replication scenarios by Replication Manager,
                    see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud Base.

To perform Hive ACID table replication using Replication Manager, Cloudera
                Manager Server must manage the target cluster. You can use the same server or a peer
                Cloudera Manager Server to manage the source cluster. Hive ACID table replication
                policies use Hive scheduler to schedule the frequency of replication policy job
                runs.


Set up a two-way trust between the CDP Private Cloud Base clusters. For more
                    information, see Configure two-way trust between clusters

Configure a peer relationship only if the source cluster is managed
                    by a different Cloudera Manager server than the target cluster. For more
                    information, see Configuring a peer relationship.

Configure the hive.repl.cm.enabled=true key-value pair
                    on the source cluster for the following services to turn on the
                    ChangeManager:



Service
Action



Hive-on-TezFor example,
                                                Hive-on-Tez-1
On the Configuration tab, search
                                        for Hive Service Advanced Configuration Snippet
                                            (Safety Valve) for hive-site.xml property
                                        and set the key-value pair


HiveFor example,
                                                Hive-1
On the Configuration tab, search
                                        for Hive Service Advanced Configuration Snippet
                                            (Safety Valve) for hive-site.xml property
                                        and set the key-value pair.


HiveFor example,
                                                Hive-1
On the Configuration tab, search
                                        for Enable ChangeManager for Hive
                                            replication parameter and select it.


importantRestart the Hive and Hive-on-Tez
                        service after you configure the key-value pair.


Configure Hive configuration parameters for Hive ACID tables. For
                    more information, see Mandatory Hive configuration parameters for Hive ACID table replication policies.
Optionally, to optimize the replication policy performance, you can configure
                    the parameters in Recommended Hive configuration parameters for Hive ACID table replication policies and
                        Parameters to optimize Hive ACID table replication performance as necessary.

Enable the Hive ACID table replication feature flag on the source and
                    target cluster.
For more information, contact your Cloudera account team.


Configure two-way trust between clustersA two-way trust between the source cluster and target cluster is required when both         the clusters use different Kerberos KDC servers with the same realm or different realms. The         staging directory is on the target cluster. It allows the source cluster to access staging         on the target cluster for both the DistCp and YARN jobs after you configure the two-way         trust between the clusters. The administrator must set up a one-way trust in order to use         replication between two kerberized clusters. You can also set up a one-way trust when the         staging directory is on the source cluster. Optionally, a two-way trust can be         configured.Configure parameters for Hive ACID table replication policies Before you create a Hive ACID table replication policy, you must configure the         required Hive parameters. Enabling Hive ACID table replication feature flagTo create Hive ACID table replication policies, you must enable the Hive ACID table         replication feature flag on the target cluster.Configure file access control lists for Impala userBefore you create Hive ACID table replication policies, you need to configure the         file access control lists for an Impala user to access the cmroot         directory based on whether the source cluster has one encryption zone, multiple encryption         zones, or no encryption zone.Parent topic: Hive ACID table replication policies