Managing Ozone replication policiesCloudera Docs
Managing Ozone replication policies
After you create an Ozone replication policy, you can perform and monitor various
        tasks related to the replication policy. You can view the job progress and replication logs.
        You can edit the advanced options to optimize a job run. You can suspend a job and also
        activate a suspended job. 

On the Replication Policies page, you can view the
                    following details about the replication policy: 


Shows a row of information for each replication policy, and the
                            following columns for each replication policy:


Internally generated ID for the
                                    replication policy. Click the column label to sort the
                                    replication policies.
Replication policy Name that you
                                    provide during replication policy creation.
Replication policy Type.
Source cluster in the replication
                                    policy.
Destination cluster in the
                                    replication policy.
Average Throughput per
                                    mapper/file for all the files written.noteThe throughput does not include the
                                        combined throughput of all mappers and the time taken to
                                        perform a checksum on a file after the file is
                                        written.
Replication job Progress.
Timestamp when the replication job
                                        Completed.
Replication policy job’s Next
                                    Run.




Provides the following options under the Actions
                            menu:


Show History opens the
                                        Replication History page for the
                                    replication policy.
Edit Configuration allows you
                                    to change the replication policy options as required.
Dry Run simulates a run of the
                                    replication job where no files or tables are copied. After
                                        the dry run completes, select Actions > Show History to view the potential error messages and the
                                        number and size of files or tables that would be copied in
                                        an actual replication appears on the Replication
                                            History page.
Run Now initiates a replication
                                    job.
Collect Diagnostic Data opens
                                    the Send Diagnostic Data dialog box where
                                    you can:
Collect Diagnostic Data
                                            for the last 10 runs of the replication policy, and
                                                Download it as a ZIP file to
                                            your machine.
Select Send Diagnostic Data to
                                                Cloudera (optionally, add a Cloudera
                                            support ticket number and comments) and click
                                                Collect Diagnostic Data to
                                            automatically send the bundle to Cloudera Support for
                                            further assistance.

Disable an active replication
                                    policy. You can Enable it later, as
                                        necessary.
Delete the replication policy
                                    permanently. Deleting a replication policy does not delete
                                    copied files or tables.





On the Replication History page, you can view the
                    following details about a replication policy job:

tipClick Actions > Show History for a replication policy on the Replication
                            Policies page to view the Replication
                            History page.



Shows the replication policy Name; replication
                            policy Type; Source cluster
                            name; Destination cluster name; and Next
                                Run of the replication policy.


Shows a row of information for each replication policy job run, and the
                            following columns for each replication policy:



Column
Description



Duration
Time taken for the replication job to
                                                complete.


Outcome
Status of the replication job as In
                                                  progress,
                                                  Successful, or
                                                  Failed.


Files Expected
Number of files expected to be copied and its
                                                file size based on the parameters of the replication
                                                policy.


Files Copied
Number of files copied and its file size for the
                                                replication job.


Files Failed
Number of files that failed to be copied and its
                                                file size for the replication job.


Files Deleted
Number of files that were deleted and its file
                                                size for the replication job


Files Skipped
Number of files skipped and its file size for the
                                                replication job. The replication process skips files
                                                that already exist in the destination and have not
                                                changed.





Expand a job to view the following information:


Replication job Started At
                                    timestamp.
Duration to complete the
                                    job.
Command Details appear in a new
                                    tab after you click View.The
                                            All Recent Commands page shows the
                                        job Status;
                                            Context (click to view the service
                                        status page); Started At timestamp;
                                            Duration to complete the job run;
                                        and Download the job run command
                                        summary as a JSON file to your local machine. The page can also Show All
                                            Steps; Show Only Failed
                                            Steps; or Show only Running
                                            Steps of the replication policy job run
                                        commands with stdout and
                                            stderr output. Click
                                            Full Log file to view the logs in
                                        a new browser tab.For more information, see
                                            Viewing Running and
                                            Recent Commands.
Click MapReduce Job ID to view
                                    more details about the job on the YARN service page.
Download CSV files of the following
                                        Ozone Replication Reports to track the
                                    replication jobs and to troubleshoot issues:


Report
Description



Listing
Lists all the files and directories copied
                                                  during the replication job.


Status
Shows the following status for each file
                                                  as:
an Error 
                                                  occurred and the file was not copied.
a Deleted
                                                  file.
an up-to-date file for which the replication
                                                  was Skipped.



Error Status Only
Status report of all the copied files with
                                                  errors. Each file shows the status, path, and
                                                  message for the copied files with errors.


Skipped Status Only
Status report of all skipped files. Each
                                                  file lists the status, path, and message for the
                                                  databases and tables that were skipped.


Deleted Status Only
Status report of all deleted files. Each
                                                  file lists the status, path, and message for the
                                                  databases and tables that were deleted.


Performance
Summary report about the performance of the
                                                  running replication job which includes the last
                                                  performance sample for each mapper that is working
                                                  on the replication job.


Full Performance
Performance report of the job which
                                                  includes the samples taken for all mappers during
                                                  the replication job. 



Run As Username is the username
                                    specified during replication policy creation to run the
                                    replication job.
Run on Peer as Username is the
                                    username specified during replication policy creation.
Message shows the total number
                                    of files copied to target cluster and the number of files that
                                    remain unchanged on the source cluster.






Parent topic: Ozone replication policies