Creating Hive ACID table replication policyCloudera Docs
Creating Hive ACID table replication policy
You can create a Hive ACID replication policy after you set up the environment and
        configure the required parameters.
Verify whether the prerequisites are met. For more
            information, see Prepare to create Hive ACID table replication policies.importantTo replicate managed tables (ACID) and
                external tables in a database successfully, you must perform the following steps in
                the order shown below:

Create Hive ACID table replication policy for the database to
                            replicate the managed data.


After the replication completes, create the Hive external table
                            replication policy to replicate the external tables in the database.
                        



Go to the Replication > Replication Policies page in the Cloudera Manager for the
                    target cluster where the peer is set up.

Click Create Replication Policy.

Select Hive ACID Table Replication Policy.
The following sample image shows the Hive ACID Table Replication
                        Policy option on the Replication Policies
                    page in Cloudera Manager:


The Create Hive ACID Table Replication Policy wizard
                    appears.

In the General tab, configure the following options:



Option
Action to perform



Policy Name
Enter a unique name for the replication policy.


Source
Choose the source cluster.


Destination
Choose the target cluster. 


Destination Staging Path
Enter a valid path to the staging location. The path must
                                        have the required permissions for the hive
                                        user. For example: /user/hive/data.
                                            Hive ACID table replication policy uses a common
                                            staging location on the source or target cluster. After
                                            you enter a valid path to the staging location, the
                                                hive.repl.rootdir parameter
                                            is configured with this path. The REPL DUMP command
                                            dumps data in the staging location in the source
                                            cluster. The REPL LOAD command reads the data from the
                                            staging location. The REPL DUMP command runs in the
                                            source cluster and the REPL LOAD command runs in the
                                            target
                                            cluster.importantDo not change or
                                            delete this path until the replication policy is in
                                            force and do not edit or modify the path during the
                                            replication life cycle. If you edit, change, or delete
                                            the path, replication errors occur or the replication is
                                            incomplete.


Source Database
Enter the source database name.


Schedule
Schedule the replication job as necessary. The Hive ACID
                                        table replication policy uses the Hive scheduler to schedule
                                        the replication policies.You can choose the following
                                            schedule options:
Every - Choose an
                                                  interval. The schedule starts at the next exact
                                                  interval based on the server time. If you want to
                                                  start it immediately, issue a Run
                                                  Now operation.For example, if you
                                                  are in California and the destination cluster is
                                                  in the Europe (Frankfurt) region, the schedule is
                                                  set based on the server time, that is, Frankfurt
                                                  local time.
Unix Cron Expression -
                                                  Enter a valid Unix cron expression.You can generate the Unix cron expression in the
                                                  following page, and then use it in the
                                                  Create Hive ACID Table Replication
                                                  Policy wizard:https://www.freeformatter.com/cron-expression-generator-quartz.html
For example, you can use 0 */30 * ?
                                                  * * to schedule the policy to run
                                                  every 30 minutes, 0 0 */4 ? *
                                                  * to schedule the run for every 4
                                                  hours, or 0 0 0 * * ? every
                                                  day at midnight.



Run as Username
Enter hive.




Click the Resources tab to configure the following
                    options:



Option
Description



Scheduler Pool
 (Optional) Enter the name of a resource pool. The value you enter is used by the MapReduce
                                            Service when Cloudera Manager runs the MapReduce job for
                                            the replication. You can use one of the following
                                            property:
MapReduce – Fair scheduler:
                                                  mapred.fairscheduler.pool
MapReduce – Capacity scheduler:
                                                  queue.name
YARN –
                                                  mapreduce.job.queuename
noteThe DistCp job running on
                                            the target cluster or a YARN uses the
                                                mapreduce.job.queuename
                                            property.



Maximum Number of Copy
                                        Mappers
Enter the number of map tasks that the DistCp MapReduce
                                        job can use for the replication policy. Default is
                                        20.


Maximum Bandwidth per Copy
                                        Mapper
Enter the bandwidth limit for each mapper. Default is 100
                                            MB.The total bandwidth used by the replication policy
                                            is equal to Maximum Bandwidth
                                            multiplied by Maximum Map Slots.
                                            Therefore, you must ensure that the bandwidth and map
                                            slots you choose do not impact other tasks or network
                                            resources in the target cluster.tipThe
                                                Throughput field on the Cloudera Manager > Replication Policies page shows the maximum bandwidth set for
                                            the replication policy during replication policy
                                            creation.




Select the Advanced tab to configure the following
                    options:



Option
Description



Policy Description
(Optional). Enter a brief description for the replication
                                        policy.


Overrides
Enter key-value pairs to override parameters for Hive
                                        ACID table replication configuration. For example, when
                                            you use HA-based clusters, you can enter the relevant
                                            key-value pairs. During the replication process, the
                                            Replication Manager overrides the key-values pairs. You
                                            can also pass the DistCp
                                            argument. 




Click Save to run the Hive ACID table replication
                    policy.

When a non-recoverable error
            appears with the FAILED_ADMIN status for a replication job, perform the following steps
            to fix the error:
Go to the error log path.
Search for the file named _non_recoverable.
Check the error stack that is printed in the
                        _non_recoverable file. 
Fix the error.
Delete the _non_recoverable file. For the next replication
                    jobs in the policy to function normally, the _non_recoverable
                    file must be deleted.


Parent topic: Hive ACID table replication policies