HDFS replication policiesCloudera Docs
HDFS replication policies
HDFS replication enables you to copy (replicate) your HDFS data from one HDFS service
    to another, synchronizing the data set on the destination service with the data set on
    the source service, based on a specified replication policy. The destination service must
    be managed by the Cloudera Manager Server where the replication is being set up, and the source
    service can be managed by that same server or by a peer Cloudera Manager Server. You can also
    replicate HDFS data within a cluster by specifying different source and destination
    directories.
Remote Replication Manager automatically copies HDFS metadata to the
      destination cluster as it copies files. HDFS metadata need only be backed up locally.
note

Replication Manager requires a valid license. To understand more about Cloudera license
          requirements, see Managing Licenses.
Minimum required role - Replication Administrator or Full
          Administrator.
Before you create replication policies, ensure that the source cluster and target
          cluster are supported by Replication Manager. For information about supported clusters and
          supported replication scenarios by Replication Manager, see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud Base.



HDFS replication policy considerationsBefore you create an HDFS replication policy, you must understand how source data         gets affected if the source data is added or deleted during replication, network latency         issues, performance and scalability limitations, snapshot diff-based replication guidelines,         and how to bypass Sentry ACLs during replication.Creating HDFS replication policy to replicate HDFS dataYou must set up your clusters before you create an HDFS replication policy.View HDFS replication policy detailsThe Replications Policies page displays a row of information about each replication     policy which includes recent messages about the last replication job run. View historical details for an HDFS replication policyYou can view the historical details about the replication jobs on the Replication     History page.Monitoring the performance of HDFS replication policiesYou can monitor the progress of an HDFS replication policy using the performance data     that you can download as a CSV file from the Cloudera Manager Admin console. Parent topic: Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Private Cloud Base