Replication Manager in CDP Private Cloud BaseCloudera Docs
Replication Manager in CDP Private Cloud Base
Replication Manager is a service in Cloudera Manager. You can create replication
    policies in this service to replicate data across data centers for various use cases which
    include disaster recovery scenarios, running hybrid workloads, migrating data to/from cloud, or
    a generic backup/restore scenario. You can also create HDFS or HBase snapshot policies to take
    snapshots of HDFS directories and HBase tables respectively.
note

Replication Manager requires a valid license. To understand more about Cloudera license
          requirements, see Managing Licenses.
Minimum required role -  Replication Administrator or Full
          Administrator.
Before you create replication policies, ensure that the source cluster and target
          cluster are supported by Replication Manager. For information about supported clusters and
          supported replication scenarios by Replication Manager, see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud Base.


Cloudera Manager provides the following key functionalities in the Cloudera Manager
      Admin Console that can be leveraged by Replication Manager:

Select datasets that are critical for your business
        operations.
Monitor and track progress of your snapshots and
        replication jobs through a central console and easily identify issues or files that failed
        to be transferred.
Issue Alert when a snapshot or replication job fails or
        is aborted so that the problem can be diagnosed quickly.

You can also use Cloudera Manager to schedule, save, and restore snapshots of HDFS
      directories and HBase tables.
tipPerform a dry run to verify configuration
      and understand the cost of the overall operation before actually copying the entire
      dataset.
importantThe hdfs user should have access to
      all Hive datasets, including all operations. Otherwise, Hive import fails during the
      replication process. To provide access, perform the following steps:

Log in to Ranger Admin UI.
Go to the Service Manager > Hadoop_SQL Policies > Access section, and provide hdfs user permission to the
              all-database, table, column policy name.




Replication Manager provides the following functionalities that you can use to
      accomplish your data replication goals:
HDFS replication policies
These policies replicate HDFS data and metadata from CDH (version 5.10 and
        higher) clusters to CDP Private Cloud Base (version 7.0.3 and higher) clusters.
Some use cases where you can use HDFS replication policies include:

copying data from legacy on-premises systems to Amazon S3 or Microsoft ADLS
          Gen2 (ABFS) cloud buckets or from cloud buckets to on-premise systems.

replicating required data to another cluster to run load-intensive workflows
            on it which optimizes the primary cluster performance.


deploying a complete backup-restore solution for your enterprise.



Hive external table replication policies
These policies replicate HDFS, Hive external tables (without manual translation
        of Hive datasets to HDFS datasets, or vice versa), Hive metastore data, Impala metadata
        (catalog server metadata) associated with Impala tables registered in the Hive metastore,
        Impala data, and Sentry permissions to Ranger from CDH (version 5.10 and higher) clusters to
        CDP Private Cloud Base (version 7.0.3 and higher) clusters. In this instance, applications
        that depend on external table definitions stored in Hive, operate on both replica and source
        as the table definitions are updated.
Some use cases where you might find these replication policies useful is to:

backup legacy data for future use or archive cold data
replicate or move data to cloud clusters to run analytics
implement a complete backup and disaster recovery solution


Hive ACID table replication policies
These policies replicate HDFS, Hive managed (ACID) data and metadata between CDP
        Private Cloud Base (version 7.1.8 and higher) clusters using Cloudera Manager version 7.7.1
        or higher.
importantTo replicate managed tables (ACID) and external
        tables in a database successfully, you must perform the following steps in the order shown
          below:

Create Hive ACID table replication policy for the database to replicate the
              managed data.


After the replication completes, create the Hive external table replication
              policy to replicate the external tables in the database. 


tipEnsure that the target database name is the same as the
        source database name, otherwise issues appear during or after data replication.
Some use cases where these replication policies can be used by security-conscious
        organizations such as financial organizations and others is to:

replicate non-sensitive data to cloud deployments to use as a backup 
migrate data to another cluster to run load-intensive workflows
use the failover functionality to make the disaster recovery cluster as your
          primary cluster so that the data ingestion being performed by a replication policy is
          uninterrupted


Ozone replication policies
You use Cloudera Manager APIs to create Ozone replication policies to replicate data in
        Ozone buckets between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 clusters or higher using Cloudera Manager
        7.7.1 or higher.
Ozone replication policies supports the following functionalities:


Replicates data between FSO buckets in source and target clusters using ofs
            protocol. Supports incremental replication using file checksums.


Replicates data between legacy buckets in source and target clusters using
            ofs protocol. Supports incremental replication using file checksums.
noteIf one or both of the source and destination buckets are
            legacy buckets, then the ozone.om.enable.filesystem.paths flag
            (cluster-level configuration property in the ozone-site.xml file)
            must be enabled on the cluster(s) with the legacy bucket.


Replicates data between OBS buckets in source and target clusters that
            support S3A filesystem using the S3A scheme or replication protocol. 


You can use these policies to replicate or migrate the required Ozone data to
        another cluster to run load-intensive workloads, back up data, or for backup-restore use
        cases. 

HDFS and HBase snapshot policies
These policies take regular point-in-time snapshots of HDFS directories and HBase
        tables respectively. 
Snapshots act as a backup, and you can restore an HDFS directory or a HBase table
        to a previous version or to another location on the same HDFS or HBase service as necessary.
        Snapshots are also used by replication policies. The first replication policy run replicates
        all the data and metadata from the chosen directories. The subsequent replication policy
        runs leverage HDFS snapshot diffs to replicate the changed data.


Parent topic: Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Private Cloud Base