Sentry to Ranger replication for Hive external tablesCloudera Docs
Sentry to Ranger replication for Hive external tables
When you create or edit a Hive external table replication policy, you can choose to
        migrate the Sentry policies for Hive objects, Impala data, and URLs that are being
        replicated. Replication Manager converts the Sentry policies to Ranger policies for the
        migrated data in the target cluster. Cloudera Manager version 6.3.1 and higher is required
        to replicate Sentry policies to Ranger.
In a Hive external table replication policy, if you choose the If Sentry
                permissions were exported from the CDH cluster, import both Hive object and URL
                permissions or If Sentry permissions were exported from the
                CDH cluster, import only Hive object permissions option, Replication
            Manager performs the following tasks automatically during the replication job run:

Exports each Sentry policy as a single JSON file using the
                    authzmigrator tool. The JSON file contains a list of
                resources, such as URI, database, table, or column and the policies that apply to
                it.
Copies the exported Sentry policies to the target cluster using the
                    DistCp tool.
Ingests the Sentry policies into Ranger after filtering the policies related to the
                replication job using the authzmigrator tool through the Ranger rest
                endpoint. To filter the policies, the Replication Manager uses a filter expression
                that is passed to the authzmigrator tool by Cloudera
                Manager.

noteIf you are replicating a subset of the tables in a database, database-level policies
            get converted to equivalent table-level policies for each table being replicated. (For
            example, ALL on database -> ALL on table individually for each table replicated).
cautionThere will be no reference to the original role names in Ranger. The
            permissions are granted directly to groups and users with respect to the resource and
            not the role. This is a different format to the Sentry to Ranger migration during an
            in-place upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base, which does import and
            use the Sentry roles.
noteRegardless of whether a policy was modified or not, each policy will
            be re-created on each replication. If you wish to continue scheduling data replication
            but you also want to modify the target cluster’s Ranger policies (and keep those
            modifications), you should disable the Sentry to Ranger migration on subsequent runs by
            editing the replication policy and choose the Do not import Sentry
                Permissions (Default) option.

Parent topic: Hive external table replication policies