Encrypting data in transit between clusters during replicationCloudera Docs
Encrypting data in transit between clusters during replication
A source directory and destination directory may or may not be in an encryption zone.
    If the destination directory is in an encryption zone, the data on the destination directory is
    encrypted. If the destination directory is not in an encryption zone, the data on that directory
    is not encrypted, even if the source directory is in an encryption zone. Encryption zones are
    not supported in CDH versions 5.1 or lower.
When you configure encryption zones, you also configure a Key
        Management Server (KMS) to manage encryption keys. During replication,
        Cloudera Manager uses TLS/SSL to encrypt the keys when they are
        transferred from the source cluster to the destination cluster.
When you configure encryption zones, you also configure a Key
        Management Server (KMS) to manage encryption keys. When a HDFS
        replication command that specifies an encrypted source directory runs,
        Cloudera Manager temporarily copies the encryption keys from the source
        cluster to the destination cluster, using TLS/SSL (if configured for the
        KMS) to encrypt the keys. Cloudera Manager then uses these keys to
        decrypt the encrypted files when they are received from the source
        cluster before writing the files to the destination cluster.

importantWhen you configure HDFS replication, you must select the
          Skip Checksum check property to prevent replication failure in the
        following cases:
Replications from an encrypted zone on the source cluster to an encrypted zone on a
            destination cluster.
Replications from an encryption zone on the source cluster to an unencrypted zone on
            the destination cluster.
Replications from an unencrypted zone on the source cluster to an encrypted zone on
            the destination cluster.


Even when the source and destination directories are both in encryption zones, the data is
      decrypted as it is read from the source cluster (using the key for the source encryption zone)
      and encrypted again when it is written to the destination cluster (using the key for the
      destination encryption zone). The data transmission is encrypted if you have configured
      encryption for HDFS Data Transfer.noteThe decryption and encryption steps happen in the same
        process on the hosts where the MapReduce jobs that copy the data run. Therefore, data in
        plain text only exists within the memory of the Mapper task. If a KMS is in use on either
        the source or destination clusters, and you are using encrypted zones for either the source
        or destination directories, configure TLS/SSL for the KMS to prevent transferring the key to
        the mapper task as plain text.
During replication, data travels from the source cluster to the destination cluster using
        distcp. For clusters that use encryption zones, configure encryption of KMS
      key transfers between the source and destination using TLS/SSL.
To configure encryption of data transmission between source and
        destination clusters:
Enable TLS/SSL for HDFS clients on both the source and the destination clusters. You
          may also need to configure trust between the SSL certificates on the source and
          destination.
Enable TLS/SSL for the two peer Cloudera Manager Servers.
Encrypt data transfer using HDFS Data Transfer Encryption.

The following blog post provides additional information about
        encryption with HDFS: https://blog.cloudera.com/blog/2013/03/how-to-set-up-a-hadoop-cluster-with-network-encryption/.

Parent topic: Replication of encrypted data