Hive ACID table replication policiesCloudera Docs
Hive ACID table replication policies
You can create the Hive ACID table replication policies in Replication Manager to
        copy ACID tables between CDP Private Cloud Base clusters for backup,
        load balancing, and other purposes. 
Hive ACID table replication policies can:
replicate ACID tables.
perform incremental replication based on metastore events.

To perform Hive ACID table replication using Replication Manager, Cloudera
            Manager Server must manage the target cluster. You can use the same server or a peer
            Cloudera Manager Server to manage the source cluster. Hive ACID table replication
            policies use Hive scheduler to schedule the frequency of replication policy job
            runs.
importantTo replicate managed tables (ACID) and external
            tables in a database successfully, you must perform the following steps in the order
            shown below:

Create Hive ACID table replication policy for the database to
                        replicate the managed data.


After the replication completes, create the Hive external table
                        replication policy to replicate the external tables in the database. 


noteDo not drop a database that is under replication in source
            cluster or target cluster.
Hive ACID table replication policies cannot replicate data:

between cloud-based clusters.


in external tables. 


within the same
                        cluster.



Prepare to create Hive ACID table replication policiesBefore you create a Hive ACID table replication policy, you must prepare the clusters         for replication.Creating Hive ACID table replication policyYou can create a Hive ACID replication policy after you set up the environment and         configure the required parameters.Managing Hive ACID table replication policiesAfter you create a replication policy, you can run the replication job, disable or         delete the job, edit the policy configuration, or view the replication job history in         Cloudera Manager. Troubleshooting Hive ACID table replication policiesThe troubleshooting scenarios in this topic help you to troubleshoot the Hive ACID         table replication policies in Replication Manager.Parent topic: Use Replication Manager to migrate to CDP Private Cloud Base