Guidelines to use snapshot diff-based replicationCloudera Docs
Guidelines to use snapshot diff-based replication
By default, Replication Manager uses snapshot differences ("diff") to improve
        performance by comparing HDFS snapshots and only replicating the files that are changed in
        the source directory. While Hive metadata requires a full replication, the data stored in
        Hive tables can take advantage of snapshot diff-based replication. 
After every replication, the Replication Manager retains a snapshot on the
            source cluster. Replication Manager uses the snapshot copy on the source cluster to
            perform incremental backup for the next replication cycle. 
Replication Manager retains snapshots on the source cluster and uses snapshot
            diff-based replication only if:
Source and target clusters are managed by Cloudera Manager 5.15 and
                    higher. 
Source cluster is managed by Cloudera Manager 5.15.0 or higher when the
                    destination is Amazon S3 or Microsoft ADLS.importantSnapshot-diff-based replication from S3/ABFS to HDFS is not
                        supported because S3/ABFS does not support snapshots. 
Source and target CDH versions are 5.13.3 or higher, 5.14.2 or higher,
                    and 5.15 or higher.

The following guidelines must be met to use snapshot diff-based replication
            efficiently in replication policies:

Source and target clusters are managed by Cloudera Manager 5.15.0 or
                higher.
Source and target clusters run CDH version 5.15.0 or higher, 5.14.2 or
                higher, or 5.13.3 or higher.
HDFS snapshots are immutable.tipSearch
                    for Enable Immutable Snapshots option in the  Cloudera Manager > Clusters > HDFS service > Configuration tab.
Snapshot root directory is set as low in the hierarchy as possible.
User used to create and run the replication policy is a super user or the
                owner of the snapshottable root. This is because the run-as-user
                (specified in the replication policy) must have the required permissions
                to list the snapshots.
Paths from both source and destination clusters in the replication
                policy must be present under a snapshottable root, or must be snapshottable. tipAn HDFS directory is referred to as
                    snapshottable if an administrator - having superuser privilege or having owner
                    access to the directory - has enabled snapshots for the directory in Cloudera
                    Manager.
All the HDFS paths for the tables in a database is snapshottable or under
                a snapshottable root for a Hive replication policy to replicate the database
                    successfully.For example, if the database being replicated has
                    external tables, all the external table HDFS data locations should be
                    snapshottable. This is because if the external table locations are not
                    snapshottable, Replication Manager does not generate a diff report. The
                    Replication Manager needs a diff report to use the snapshot diff feature.
                

importantDo not use snapshot diff for globbed paths
            because it is not optimized for globbed paths.
FAQs

What do I do when snapshot diff-based replication fails because an encrypted
                        subdirectory exists in the source data?
To resolve this issue, create an exclusion regex in the replication policy
                        to exclude the subdirectory during replication. Create another replication
                        policy to replicate the encrypted subdirectory.
During what circumstances does the Replication Manager initiate a complete
                        data replication?
Replication Manager initiates a complete replication for the following
                            scenarios:
When you do not choose Abort on Snapshot Diff
                                    Failures (when you create a replication policy in
                                Replication Manager) and errors appear during the replication
                                process. In this case, the Replication Manager continues to
                                    replicate and performs a complete replication after it
                                    encounters an error. 
When one or more of the following parameters that you set
                                in the replication policy changes: 
Delete Policy
Preserve Policy
Target Path
Exclusion Path.

When a change in the target directories is detected.
                                    Replication Manager ensures that the next HDFS snapshot
                                    replication is a complete replication.




Parent topic: HDFS replication policy considerations