TroubleshootingCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting
This section helps you to narrow down a cause for an issue and provides a possible
  direction to resolve it.
Parent topic: Self-service exploratory analytics
Unable to see the S3 File Browser on the Hue web interface

Condition
Unable to see the S3 File Browser on the Hue web interface.


Cause
You may not have configured your Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) environment to
                    have an S3 bucket that you can use to save data as part of the import
                    process.

Solution

Add an S3 bucket in the CDW environment that you have access to. For more
                        information, see the prerequisites section.





External File option is unavailable

Condition
External File option is unavailable on the Hue Importer
                dropdown list.


Cause
You may not have configured Hue to access the S3 bucket that you added in the
                    environment.

Solution

Add the AWS access key and secret access key for your S3 bucket in the
                            hue-safety-valve property. For more information,
                        see the prerequisites section.





Error while accessing a directory in S3

Condition
Error stating "cannot access directory" while importing a file in Hue.


Cause
You may not have specified the right credentials in the
                        hue-safety-valve property correctly.

Solution

Ensure that the account that owns the S3 bucket that you have added to your
                        CDW environment has been added to the
                            hue-safety-valve correctly.





Incorrect region error while uploading a file to S3

Condition
"Incorrect region" error while importing and uploading a file to S3 from your
                computer using Hue.


Cause
You may not have specified the AWS region where your S3 bucket is stored in the
                        hue-safety-valve.

Solution

Ensure that the AWS region that you have specified in the
                            hue-safety-valve is the same as the AWS region
                        where your S3 bucket that you have added to your environment is managed.




