Self-service exploratory analytics use caseCloudera Docs
Self-service exploratory analytics use case
A real-life business narrative enables you to follow and understand the Self-service
  exploratory analytics CDP pattern. The narrative introduces the key personas at play, establishes
  burning business questions, and sets parameters for the success criteria of the
  pattern.
This is a sample use case. The steps in this pattern can be applied to similar use cases across
   other industries.
The use case: Sales promotion at duty-free stores for airline customers with longer
    layovers or flight delays
You are a marketing data aggregator (Special Marketing Group (SMG)) company, helping a group
    of duty-free shops in airports to answer some questions around a new marketing campaign they
    plan to run. The duty-free shop owners want to partner with specific airlines to offer discounts
    through the airlines to their passengers who spend more time in an international terminal than
    warranted for their flight. In this partnership, the airlines can improve customer satisfaction
    during extended wait times, and duty-free shops can increase sales.
A representative of a number of duty-free shops has requested help to select airlines to
    partner with. The shops will offer discounts to passengers of those airlines experiencing
    delays.
To decide which airlines to partner with, the marketing managers from the duty-free shops need
    to know which airlines have the most customers who experience delays and base the size of the
    discount on a range of dissatisfaction levels.
This short-lived sales promotion does not warrant a permanent dashboard or report, and you do
    not expect more than 100 people to access the data resulting from this pattern.

Key personas of this use case
The primary personas have access to the data and perform analytics on it. The secondary
    personas draft sales promotion policies from business insights.
Primary personas:
Data Analyst: The Data Analyst from the SMG company is responsible for
      providing the duty-free shop owners with a visual tool to choose airline partners for offering
      duty-free discounts.
LoB Marketing Representative: The LoB Marketing Representative for the duty-free
      shops is globally responsible for supporting a number of duty-free shop owners in sales and
      marketing activities, and requests decision support services from the SMG company. 

Secondary personas:
Marketing Data Analysts: The Marketing Data Analysts from each duty-free
      organization would want to access the dashboards for insight. The assumption is that there are
      no more than 10 duty-free shop management firms with no more than 10 analysts interested in
      evaluating data that is published based on this request.
LoB Managers: Managers from each duty-free organization use the insight and draft
      the promotional policies.


Criteria and conditions for the sales promotion
The LoB Marketing Representative has identified ideal airline partners as ones that have the
    most customers that experience the following inconveniences:
Long layovers before an international flight
Elongated layovers caused by delayed international flights (connection)
Missed international connections due to a delay on the pre-connection flights

The LoB Marketing Representative wants to offer a discount program in partnership with their
    ideal airlines, which partially subsidize the discount percentage based on passenger
    inconveniences as follows:
10% discount at the duty-free shop for passengers with long layovers not caused by delays.
      A long layover is any layover greater than 90 minutes.
20% discount for passengers that have an elongated layover due to a delay in their next
      leg. An elongated delay is a delay of the departing flight greater than 60 minutes.
30% discount for passengers displaced by missing their connecting flight due to a delay in
      their previous leg. A missed connection is a delay of 45 minutes, or more, between arrival and
      the departure of the connecting international flight. The minimum time between flights to
      safely make a connection is 45 minutes.


Burning business questions
The marketing data coordinator from the SMG company has data about the airlines, flights,
    airports, and passengers in a number of places. The SMG Data Analyst needs to address the
    following business questions using data they have aggregated from airlines and airports
     tables:
Which airlines have the most passengers who have long layovers built into their
      tickets?
Which airlines have the most passengers who have delayed international legs in their
      itinerary causing an extended layover in their flight itinerary?
Which airlines have the most passengers who are displaced by a missed international
      connection, caused by a delay in their previous leg?


Success criteria
Going from data to dashboard in 15 minutes.
The SMG Data Analyst is able to explore and analyze data using Hue and can share a dashboard
    in CDP Data Visualization with the Marketing Data Analysts and LoB Managers. The Marketing Data
    Analysts and LoB Managers should be able to use this dashboard and the insights to frame the
    promotional policies for their duty-free outlets.


Parent topic: Self-service exploratory analytics