Generating and sharing dashboardsCloudera Docs
Generating and sharing dashboards
Use Cloudera Data Visualization to create dashboards from queries and share them with
        your
        stakeholders.

Log in to the CDW service.

Go to Virtual Warehouses, click the options menu and select Open
                        Viz.

Go to the DATA interface and click NEW
                        DATASET.

On the New Dataset pop-up, specify a Dataset
                        title.
Select From SQL from the Dataset
                        Source drop-down list.
Copy and paste the following query in the Enter SQL
                        below field and click
                    CREATE:-- Number of passengers on the airline that have long, planned layovers for an international flight
SELECT 
   a.leg1uniquecarrier as carrier, 
   count(a.leg1uniquecarrier) as passengers
FROM 
   `airline_ontime_orc`.unique_tickets a
where 
   a.leg2deptime - a.leg1arrtime>90
group by 
   a.leg1uniquecarrier
;





A new data set is created based on which you can create the
                    visualization.

Go to the HOME interface and click NEW
                        DASHBOARD.
The Dashboard Designer opens on an untitled
                    dashboard.

Enter a name for your dashboard, select the dataset that you just created from
                    the ADD VISUALS menu, and click NEW
                        VISUAL.
The data is rendered in a tabular format from the SQL query.

Select a visual type from the VISUALS menu, such as a
                    pie chart. Select the appropriate Dimensions and
                        Measures from the DATA menu,
                    and click REFRESH VISUAL.
The pie chart shows the airlines having the most passengers with long layovers
                    on international flights.






Click SAVE.

To share the dashboard:


Open your dashboard from the VISUAL
                            interface.


Click the more option and select Get URL.
A pop-up containing the URL is displayed.


Copy the URL by right-clicking it and share it with your
                            stakeholders.




Parent topic: Self-service exploratory analytics steps