Known issuesCloudera Docs
Known issues
A summary of known issues for this version of Cloudera Stream Processing.

SRM does not sync re-created source topics until the offsets have caught up with target
     topic
Problem: Messages written to topics that were deleted and re-created are not
     replicated until the source topic reaches the same offset as the target topic. For example, if
     at the time of deletion and re-creation there are a 100 messages on the source and target
     clusters, new messages will only get replicated once the re-created source topic has 100
     messages. This leads to messages being lost.
Workaround: N/A.


SRM may automatically re-create deleted topics 
Problem: If auto.create.topics.enable is enabled, deleted topics are
     automatically recreated on source clusters.
Workaround: Prior to deletion, remove the topic from the topic allowlist (whitelist) with the
      srm-control tool. This prevents topics from being
     re-created.srm-control topics --source [SOURCE_CLUSTER] --target [TARGET_CLUSTER] --remove [TOPIC1][TOPIC2]


Replication failing when SRM driver is present on multiple nodes
Problem: Kafka replication fails when the SRM driver is installed on more than one
     node. 
Workaround: N/A


SRM cannot replicate Sentry authorization rules from one Kafka cluster to another 
Problem:When Sentry contains Kafka authorization policies for any
            ConsumerGroup resource, SRM cannot replicate authorization rules from
          one Kafka cluster to another in environments where Sentry is enabled. This is due to a
          Kafka resource conversion error in Sentry. For more information regarding the underlying
          Sentry issue, see SENTRY-2535 and the Kafka known issues in CDH Known Issues.
Workaround: Disable authorization policy synchronization in SRM. This can be
          achieved by setting the sync.topic.acls.enabled property to false.


Deployment of the activation.jar for airgapped SMM environments
Problem: SMM downloads and installs the activation-1.1.1.jar as part of the startup
          process. This requires the host to be connected to the internet to be able to download the
          jar from the central repository. If the host is not connected to the internet, you get an
          error.
Workaround: In case the host is not connected to the Internet, the activation-1.1.1.jar needs to be downloaded
          manually by the administrator and copied to the following application lib folder:
            /opt/cloudera/parcels/STREAMS_MESSAGING_MANAGER-2.1.0.2.0.1.0-29/libs.


The Condition field in the Alert Policy UI displays incorrect values
Problem: When you edit or update an alert policy with REST API in SMM, the
          CONDITION field in the Alert Policy UI does not display correct values.
Workaround: Reset the Attribute/Metric drop-down value before selecting the
          operator value again.


Exception in the SMM UI - Not displaying any data
Problem: If the topic (or) producer name contains keywords such as
          clientId/topic/partition, then SMM would not display the metrics for those resources. This
          is due to the bug in regular expression which captures the topic (or) partition
          information from the metric name. Moreover, SMM throws "For Input String" error in the UI
          when there exists another topic whose name is a suffix of the first one.For
            example,For a topic named with "hello.topic.world", SMM would not
            display the metrics for the resource as the topic name contains the keyword "topic". If
            there exists another topic named as world whose name is a suffix of the first one, then
            SMM throws "For Input String" error in the UI. 
Workaround: There is no workaround for this issue. 
SMM logs are not moving to the custom location
Problem: SMM logs are not created in the custom location.
Workaround: No workaround.


SMM throws error if Service Monitor is not on CM host
Problem: If the Cloudera Manager Service Monitor and Cloudera Manager Server are
          deployed on different hosts, SMM is unable to fetch metrics correctly. As a result,
          historic data for consumer offsets and lag are not displayed, only the latest data is
          available. You receive the following error message and cause in the
            streams-messaging-manager.log:ERROR
com.hortonworks.smm.kafka.services.clients.ConsumerGroupManagementTask: Error while fetching consumer group information.
Caused by: org.apache.avro.AvroRemoteException: java.net.ConnectException: Connection refused (Connection refused)
Workaround: No workaround.


Cannot read property 'indexOf' thrown when ETELatencyMetrics is disabled
Problem: If latency metrics is disabled and you click the latency tab on the
          Topic Profile page in the SMM UI, then the following error
          appears:Cannot read property ‘indexOf’ of null.
Workaround: Latency metrics should be configured and enabled before you view it
          on the SMM UI.


