Creating new dimension hierarchiesCloudera Docs
Creating new dimension hierarchies


You may find it useful to define a hierarchy of dimensions, to enable visuals with variable
        levels of granularity over the same range of data.
noteThis feature is available only to users with administrative privileges.

The following steps demonstrate how to define such a hierarchy on the dataset
            World Life Expectancy [data source
          samples.world_life_expectancy]. In this example the dimensions
          un_region, un_subregion, and country are used to define a dimensional
        hierarchy called Region.


On the main navigation bar, click DATA.

The Data view appears open on the Datasets tab.


In the left navigation menu, click samples.

In the Datasets area, select World Life
            Expectancy
(samples.world_life_expectancy).






In the Dataset Detail menu, select
          Fields.






In the Fields interface, select Edit
            fields.






In the editable Fields interface, under
            Dimensions, find the field
              un_region.

Click Down icon on the un_region line, and
          select Create Hierarchy.






In the Create Hierarchy modal window, enter the values for
            Hierarchy Name and Hierarchy Comment, and
          click CREATE.

The example shows a hierarchy named Region, described as Geographical
              Granularity.





Note that Measures now contain a hierarchy
            Region, denoted by the Hierarchy icon. The
          hierarchy contains a single element, un_region.






To add more levels to the hierarchy, simply click and drag the relevant dimensions or
          measures to the newly created hierarchy. Make sure to arrange them in order of scale, from
          largest to smallest.

Below un_region, un_subregion was added.



Below un_subregion, country was added.





Click SAVE.


Defined dimension hierarchies, such as Region created here, can be
        used just as any other dimension field of the dataset.


