Preparing cloud storage to deploy custom processorsCloudera Docs
Preparing cloud storage to deploy custom processors
You can use a custom NiFi processor or controller service in one of your CDF flow
        deployments,  add the NiFi Archive (NAR) files containing the custom processor or controller
        service to a cloud storage location for later use during a flow deployment.

Create your cloud storage location. 

Upload your NAR files to the cloud storage location. 

Configure access to your cloud provider storage in one of two ways:



You have configured access to S3 buckets using ID Broker mapping.
If your environment is
              not RAZ-enabled, you can configure access to S3 buckets using ID Broker mapping.
Access IDBroker mappings.
To access IDBroker mappings in your environment, click Actions > Manage Access.
Choose the IDBroker Mappings tab where you
                      can provide mappings for users or groups and click
                      Edit.

Add your CDP Workload User and the corresponding AWS role that
                  provides write access to your folder in your S3 bucket to the Current
                    Mappings section by clicking the blue +
                    sign.noteYou can get the AWS IAM role ARN from the Roles
                      Summary page in AWS and can copy it into the IDBroker role field.
                    The selected AWS IAM role must have a trust policy allowing IDBroker to assume
                    this role.
Click Save and Sync.



You have configured access to S3 buckets with a RAZ enabled environment.
It is a best practice to enable RAZ to control access
              to your object store buckets. This allows you to use your CDP credentials to access S3
              buckets, increases auditability, and makes object store data ingest workflows portable
              across cloud providers. 
Ensure that Fine-grained access control is enabled for
                  your DataFlow environment.
From the Ranger UI, navigate to the S3 repository.
Create a policy to govern access to the S3 bucket and path used in your ingest
                  workflow. tip
The Path field must begin with a forward slash ( /
                      ).

Add the machine user that you have created for your ingest workflow to the
                  policy you just created.


For more information, see Creating Ranger policy to use in RAZ-enabled AWS
                environment.




Note the workload user name and password, and cloud storage location to use in
                    the Deployment Wizard.

tipIf you want to provide a machine user
    as CDP Workload Username during flow deployment, make sure to note the
    full workload user name including the srv_ prefix.



Once you have added the NAR files to a cloud storage location, you are ready to
                launch the Deployment Wizard and deploy a flow.  


