Prepare Hive tables for migrationCloudera Docs
Prepare Hive tables for migration

To prepare the tables for migration, use Hive SRE
     Tool which is a Cloudera Lab tool that scans your Hive Metastore and HDFS to
   identify common upgrade problems that can cause the CDP upgrade to fail. The tool provides
   guidance for fixing those problems before migrating the tables to CDP. This guidance is provided
   through reports that the administrator must take action on. The tool does not take corrective
   action itself.
Cloudera strongly recommends running the Hive SRE Tool to aid in this pre-upgrade
    HMS healthcheck. If you do not run it, you must manually investigate your HMS for the following
    types of problems.
Please refer to Hive SRE Tooling for tool
     setup, tool execution & interpretation of output using Hive SRE Tool on Hive
    Metadata.
The general transition from Hive 1 and 2 to Hive 3 includes the following types of
   HMS operations. The Hive SRE Tool performs the equivalent types of checks in an automated
   fashion. Please review these from the Cloudera documentation site (CDH 5, CDH 6, HDP 2, HDP 3).
Note for section below:XXX stands for some value/count, this is a value of
    the number of affected paths we will get from the Hive-SRE tool output reports. For each type of
    condition listed in the table , there will be some number of paths/tables affected.



Condition
Impact
Distribution Affected



Bad Filenames

Tables that would be converted from a Managed Non-Acid table to an ACID
         transactional table require the files to match a certain pattern. This process will scan
         the potential directories of these tables for bad filename patterns. When located, it will
         indicate which tables/partitions have file naming conventions that would prevent a
         successful conversion to ACID. 
The best and easiest way to correct these file names is to use HiveSQL to
         rewrite the contents of the table/partition with a simple 'INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE
          xxx SELECT * FROM xxx'. 
This type of statement will replace the current bad filenames with valid file
         names by rewriting the contents in HiveSQL.
There are approximately XXX paths that may need remediation. The list of paths
         can be found in the output of the Hive assessment report in the
          u3/bad_filenames_for_orc_conversion.md.




Missing Directories

Missing Directories cause the upgrade conversion process to fail. This
         inconsistency is an indicator that data was removed from the file system, but the Hive
         MetaStore was not updated to reflect that operation. An example of this is deleting a
         partition in HDFS, without dropping the partition in Hive.
There are XXX affected paths that need remediation. The list of
         directories can be found in the output of the Hive assessment report, in the file
          u3/loc_scan_missing_dirs.md.




Managed Shadow Tables

In Hive 3, Managed tables are 'ACID' tables. Sharing a location between two
         'ACID' tables will cause compaction issues and data issues. These need to be resolved
         before the upgrade.
There are XXX affected tables that need remediation. The list of paths
         can be found in the output of the Hive assessment report, in the file
          u3/hms_checks.md




Managed Table Migrations

This process will list tables that will and 'could' be migrated to "Managed
         ACID" tables during the upgrade process. 
Tables used directly by Spark or if data is managed by a separate process that
         interacts with the FileSystem, you may experience issues post-upgrade.
Recommended: Consider converting these tables to external tables.
There are XXX affected tables that may need remediation. The list of
         tables can be found in the output of the Hive assessment report in the file
          managed_upgrade_2_acid.sql.




Compaction Check

In the upgrade to Hive 3, ACID tables must be compacted prior to initiating the
         upgrade.
XXX tables were noted as requiring compaction. Because CDH does not support
         Hive ACID tables, this may be a leftover from the previous HDP to CDH migration that the
         customer implemented.
This should be investigated further. The affected table is
          ers_stage_tls.test_delete




Unknown SerDe Jars

Will list tables using SerDe’s that are not standard to the platform. Review
         list of SerDes and verify they are still necessary and available for CDP.
There are approximately XXX tables configured with 3rd party SerDes.




Remove transactional=false from Table Properties

In CDH 5.x it is possible to create tables with the property
          transactional=false set. While this is a no-op setting, if any of your Hive
         tables explicitly set this, the upgrade process fails.
You must remove 'transactional'='false' from any tables you want to upgrade
         from CDH 5.x to CDP. 
Alter the table as follows:
ALTER TABLE my_table UNSET TBLPROPERTIES
         ('transactional');




Make Tables SparkSQL Compatible

Non-Acid, managed tables in ORC or in a Hive Native (but non-ORC) format that
         are owned by the POSIX user hive will not be SparkSQL compatible after the upgrade unless
         you perform manual conversions.
If your table is a managed, non-ACID table, you can convert it to an external
         table using this procedure (recommended). After the upgrade, you can easily convert the
         external table to an ACID table, and then use the Hive Warehouse Connector to access the
         ACID table from Spark.
Take one of the following actions.


Convert the tables to external Hive tables before the upgrade.

ALTER TABLE ... SET
                        TBLPROPERTIES('EXTERNAL'='TRUE','external.table.purge'='true')



Change the POSIX ownership to an owner other than hive.
You will need to convert managed, ACID v1 tables to external tables after the
           upgrade.






Legacy Kudu Serde Report
Early versions of Hive/Impala tables using Kudu were built before Kudu
        became an Apache Project. Once it became an Apache Project, the base Kudu Storage Handler
        classname changed. This report locates and reports on tables using the legacy storage
        handler class.



Legacy Decimal Scale and Precision Check
When the DECIMAL data type was first introduced in Hive 1, it did NOT
        include a Scale or Precision element. This causes issues in later integration with Hive and
        Spark. We'll identify and suggest corrective action for tables where this condition
        exists.



Database / Table and Partition Counts
Use this to understand the scope of what is in the metastore.



Small Files, Table Volumes, Empty Datasets
Identify and fix these details to clean up unwanted datasets in the cluster
        which would speed up the Hive upgrade process.



Merge Independent Hive and Spark Catalogs

In HDP 3.0 - 3.1.4, Spark and Hive use independent catalogs for accessing
         tables created using SparkSQL or Hive tables. A table created from Spark resides in the
         Spark catalog. A table created from Hive resides in the Hive catalog. Databases fall under
         the catalog namespace, similar to how tables belong to a database namespace. In HPD 3.1.5,
         Spark and Hive share a catalog in Hive metastore (HMS) instead of using separate
         catalogs.
The Apache Hive schematool in HDP 3.1.5 and CDP releases supports the
         mergeCatalog task.






Parent topic: Migrating Hive and Impala workloads to CDP One