Adding inbound connection support to a draftCloudera Docs
Adding inbound connection support to a draft
You can enable a dataflow to listen on a public endpoint to data sources that are
    outside your CDP environment by adding inbound connection support to your draft.
To enable your dataflow to use listen processors with inbound connection endpoint
      support, make the following addition to your draft:

Open the draft where you want to enable inbound connection support.
Add the required listen processor to your draft.CDF supports all listen
          processors, including custom processors.

Configure the processor to enable inbound connections.

Port
Provide a port number where the flow deployment listens for incoming data. You can
              either add it as a parameter by clicking  > Convert To Parameter to make the actual port number configurable during flow deployment, or
              you can set an explicit port number when creating the draft.
SSL Context Service
Create an external StandardRestrictedSSLContectService for your processor, by
              clicking  > Add Service and filtering for StandardRestrictedSSLContectService. You must name
              this context service Inbound SSL Context Service. No other
              configuration is required. The SSL context service will be created during cluster
              deployment and all other properties will be populated with values generated for that
              NiFi cluster.
Client Auth
Set to “REQUIRED” to use mTLS.

noteMost listen processors only support TCP. ListenSyslog supports
          both TCP and UDP. As dataflow deployments do not support mixed protocols for listening
          ports, and UDP does not support SSL Context Service and Client authentication, Cloudera
          advises to configure your ListenSyslog processor to use TCP protocol. This allows your CDF
          dataflow to use SSL Context Service for authentication and to listen to different data
          sources on different ports.If this is not possible, create separate flows
            that listen on UDP and TCP respectively.



