Adding a parameter to your draftCloudera Docs
Adding a parameter to your draft
The values of properties in the flow, including sensitive properties, can be
        parameterized. Learn how to add a parameter to your draft. 

note
Parameters are created within Parameter Contexts. In CDP Flow Designer, one
                    default Parameter Context is auto-created when you create a new draft. You can
                    then add parameters to this one context, you cannot create additional ones. This
                    default context is automatically bound to each Process Group you create within
                    your draft, making all parameters available to be used in any process group.




Make sure that you have DFDeveloper permission to perform this task. For
                    information on account and resource roles, see DataFlow
                    authorization.
You have created a draft in CDF Flow Designer.



Related informationDataFlow authorizationFor more information on Parameters, see the NiFi User Guide.
Adding a parameter from Flow Options
Learn about creating parameters from the Flow Options menu.

Click Flow Options > Parameters > Add Parameter
Add Parameter or Add Sensitive
                            Parameter. 




noteA sensitive parameter cannot be
                            later changed to non-sensitive and this is also true the other way
                            around. Keep this in mind when creating parameters.


Provide the parameter Name, define a
                            Value (or select Set empty
                            string) and optionally provide a parameter
                            Description.






When you are done, click Apply.

For your parameter changes to take effect, click Apply
                            Changes.






Click  Back to Flow
                    Designer to return to the canvas when you are done adding
                parameters.



Creating a parameter from the Configuration pane
Learn about converting a property of a component into a parameter from the
            Configuration pane.

Select the component with the Property that you want
                        to convert to a parameter.
Click the component on the Canvas to access its
                        properties in the Configuration pane.

Locate the property that you want to turn into a parameter and click 
                                More > Convert To Parameter.






Edit the parameter Name,
                            Value, and optionally add a description.

Click Add.
The Value of the
                            Property is automatically updated to a reference
                        to the newly created parameter.

Click Apply to save the change you made to your
                        component.

noteEven if you click  Discard Changes at this
                            stage, the parameter is created, but the Property
                            is reset  to its previous Value.To delete an
                                unwanted parameter:  
Go to Flow Options >  Parameters.
Click  in the row of the parameter to be
                                    deleted.
Click 
                                        Delete.





