Configuring Alert Email DeliveryCloudera Docs
Configuring Alert Email Delivery

Minimum Required Role:
Limited Cluster
            Administrator  (also provided by Full
          Administrator and Cluster
          Administrator)
Sending A Test Alert E-mail
Select the Administration > Alerts tab and click the Send
        Test Alert link.

Configuring the List Of Alert Recipient Email Addresses

Click
              Clusters > Cloudera
              Management Service.
Select the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > Alert
              Publisher.
Select
              Category > Main.
Locate the Alerts: Mail Message Recipients
          property or search for it by typing its name in the Search box.
Configure the Alerts: Mail Message Recipients
          property. Use the + icon to add new
          recipients.
Click the Save Changes button at the top of the page to save your settings.To apply this configuration property to other role groups as
            needed, edit the value for the appropriate role group. See the topic Modifying
              Configuration Properties Using Cloudera Manager.
Restart the Alert Publisher role.


Configuring Alert Email Properties

Display the Cloudera Management Service status page.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > Alert
              Publisher.
Select
              Category > Main
          to see the list of properties. To receive email alerts, you must set
          (or verify) the following settings:
Enable email alerts
Email protocol to use.
Your mail server hostname and port.
The username and password of the email user that will be logged into the mail server
              as the "sender" of the alert emails.importantIf a
                password contains special characters such as @, #, $, %, ^, &, and *, then
                enclose the password inside the RAW() method. For example,
              "RAW(pass@*word)".
A comma-separated list of email addresses that will be the
              recipients of alert emails.
The format of the email alert message. Select json if you
              need the message to be parsed by a script or program.
To apply this configuration property to other role groups as
            needed, edit the value for the appropriate role group. See the topic Modifying
              Configuration Properties Using Cloudera Manager.
Click the Save Changes button at the top of the page to save your
          settings.
Restart the Alert Publisher role.



Related informationModifying Configuration Properties Using Cloudera ManagerParent topic: Alerts