Activity ChartsCloudera Docs
Activity Charts
By default the charts show aggregated statistics about the performance of the cluster:
    Tasks Running, CPU Usage, and Memory Usage. There are additional charts you can enable from a
    pop-up panel. You can also superimpose individual job statistics on any of the displayed
    charts.
Most charts display multiple metrics within the same chart. For example, the
        Tasks Running chart shows two metrics: Cluster, Running
        Maps and Cluster, Running Reduces in the same chart. Each
        metric appears in a different color.

To see the exact values at a given point in time, move the cursor over the chart
          – a movable vertical line pinpoints a specific time, and a tooltip
          shows you the values at that point.
You can use the time range selector at the top of the page to zoom in – the
          chart display will follow. In order to zoom out, you can use the Time
          Range Selector at the top of the page or click the link below the
          chart.


To select additional charts:


Click  at the top right of the
        chart panel to open the Customize dialog box.
Check or uncheck the boxes next to the charts you want to show or hide.


To show or hide cluster-wide statistics:


Check or uncheck the Cluster checkbox at the top of the
          Charts panel.


To chart statistics for an individual job:


Click the chart icon () in the row next to the
        job you want to show on the charts. The job ID will appear in the top bar next to the
        Cluster checkbox, and the statistics will appear on the appropriate chart.
To remove a job's statistics from the chart, click the  next to the job ID in the top bar of the chart.

noteChart selections are retained only for the current session.

To expand, contract, or hide the charts:


Move the cursor over the divider between the Activities list and the charts,
          grab it and drag to expand or contract the chart area compared to the
          Activities list.
Drag the divider all the way to the right to hide the charts, or all the way to
          the left to hide the Activities list.


Parent topic: Monitoring Activities