Cluster Utilization Report overviewCloudera Docs
Cluster Utilization Report overview
The Cluster Utilization Report screens in Cloudera Manager
  display aggregated utilization information for YARN and Impala jobs. 
The reports display CPU utilization, memory utilization, resource
      allocations made due to the YARN capacity scheduler, and Impala queries.
      The report displays aggregated utilization for the entire cluster and also
      breaks out utilization by tenant, which is either a user or a
      resource pool. You can configure the report to display utilization for a
      range of dates, specific days of the week, and time ranges. 
The report displays the current utilization of CPU and memory resources and the resources that
   were allocated using the Cloudera Manager resource management features.
Using the information displayed in the Cluster Utilization Report, a
   Cloudera Runtime cluster administrator can verify that sufficient resources are available for the
   number and types of jobs running in the cluster. An administrator can use the reports to tune
   resource allocations so that resources are used efficiently and meet business requirements. Tool
   tips in the report pages provide suggestions about how to improve performance based on the
   information displayed in the report. Hover over a label to see these suggestions and other
   information. For example:
You can tune the following:
CPU and memory allocations 
Weights for each pool
Scheduling rules
Preemption thresholds
Maximum number of running and queued Impala queries
Maximum timeout for the queue of Impala queries
Placement rules
Number of hosts in a cluster
Memory capacity of hosts
Impala Admission Control pool and queue configurations


Enable the Cluster Utilization ReportYou must configure several parameters to enable the Cluster Utilization     Report.Configure the Cluster Utilization ReportYou can configure the Cluster Utilization Report using Cloudera Manager.Use the Cluster Utilization Report to manage resourcesThe Cluster Utilization Report provides information about CPU and memory utilization in   three tabs: Overview, YARN and Impala tabs.Creating a Custom Cluster Utilization Report You can create a custom Cluster Utilization Report using different metrics and   queries.