Configuring Periodic Stacks CollectionCloudera Docs
Configuring Periodic Stacks Collection
You can enable and configure periodic stacks collection. 

Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)

Open the Cloudera Manager page for a specific service or role.Access the configuration settings in one of the following ways:


From the service page in Cloudera Manager, click the
                  Configuration tab.
Select Scope > NameNode.
Select Category > Stacks Collection.




From the service page in Cloudera Manager, click the Instances tab.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > 
role type
.
Select Category > Stacks Collection.



The configuration settings are as follows:

Stacks Collection Enabled - Whether or not periodic stacks collection is
            enabled.

Stacks Collection Directory - The directory in which stack logs will be
            placed. If not set, stacks will be logged into a
            stacks subdirectory of the role's log directory.

Stacks Collection Frequency - The frequency with which stacks will be
            collected.

Stacks Collection Data Retention - The amount of stacks data that will be
            retained. When the retention limit is reached, the oldest data will
            be deleted.

Stacks Collection Method - The method that will be used to collect
            stacks. The jstack option involves periodically running the jstack
            command against the role's daemon process. The servlet method is
            available for those roles with an HTTP server endpoint that exposes
            the current stacks traces of all threads. When the servlet method is
            selected, that HTTP endpoint is periodically scraped.



As an example, to configure stacks collection for an HDFS NameNode, complete the following steps:
Go to the HDFS service page.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > NameNode.
Select Category > Stacks Collection.
Locate the property or search for it by typing its name in the Search box.
Modify the configuration settings if desired.
Click Save Changes.



Stacks collection configuration settings are stored in a per-role configuration file called
        cloudera-stacks-monitor.properties. Cloudera Manager reads the configuration file
      and coordinates stack collection. Changes to the configuration settings take effect after a
      short delay. It is not necessary to restart the role.

Parent topic: Periodic Stacks Collection