Choosing and Running a FilterCloudera Docs
Choosing and Running a Filter
You can construct a filter, type a filter, or select a suggested or recently run
    filter.

Do one of the following:
Select a Suggested or Recently Run Filter: Click the  to the right of the Search button to display a list of
            sample and recently run filters, and select a filter. The filter text displays in the
            text box.
Construct a Filter from the
              Workload Summary Attributes: Optionally, click Select Attributes
            to display a dialog box where you can chose attributes to display in
            the Workload
              Summary section. Select the checkbox next to one or
            more attributes and click Close. Only
            attributes that support filtering appear in the Workload Summary
            section. See the Attributes table.The
              attributes display in the Workload Summary
              section along with values or ranges of values that you can filter
              on. The values and ranges display as links with checkboxes. Select
              one or more checkboxes to add the range or value to the query.
              Click a link to run a query on that value or range. For
                example:



Type a Filter: Start typing or press Spacebarin the text box. As
              you type, filter attributes matching the typed letter display. If you press
                Spacebar, standard filter attributes display. These suggestions are part of
              typeahead, which helps build valid queries. For information about the attribute name
              and supported values for each field, hover over the field in an existing query.

Select an attribute and press Enter.
Press Spacebar to display a drop-down list of operators.
Select an operator and press Enter.
Specify an attribute value. For attribute values that support typeahead, press
                  the spacebar to display a drop-down list of values and press Enter.
                  Alternatively, you can type a value.



Click in the text box and press Enter or click Search. The list displays the results
          that match the specified filter. If the histograms are showing, they are redrawn to show
          only the values for the selected filter. The filter is added to the Recently Run
          list.

Related informationFilter AttributesParent topic: Monitoring YARN Applications