Configuring Monitoring SettingsCloudera Docs
Configuring Monitoring Settings
You can configure settings for various types of monitoring in Cloudera Manager, such as
    health tests, activities, and more.
Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
There are several types of monitoring settings you can configure in Cloudera
      Manager:

Health tests - For a service or role for which monitoring is provided,
        you can enable and disable selected health tests and events, configure
        how those health tests factor into the overall health of the service,
        and modify thresholds for the status of certain health tests. For hosts
        you can disable or enable selected health tests, modify thresholds, and
        enable or disable health alerts.
Free space - For hosts, you can set threshold-based monitoring of free
        space in the various directories on the hosts Cloudera Manager
        monitors.
Activities - For MapReduce, YARN, and Impala services, you can
        configure aspects of how Cloudera Manager monitors activities,
        applications, and queries.
Alerts - For all roles you can configure health alerts and
        configuration change alerts. You can also configure some service
        specific alerts and how alerts are delivered. 
Log events - For all roles you can configure logging thresholds, log
        directories, log event capture, when log messages become events, and
        when to generate log alerts.
Monitoring roles - For the Cloudera Management Service you can configure monitoring
        settings for the monitoring roles themselves—enable and disable health tests on the
        monitoring processes as well as configuring some general settings related to events and
        alerts (specifically with the Event Server and Alert Publisher). Each of the Cloudera
        Management Service roles has its own parameters that can be modified to specify how much
        data is retained by that service. For some monitoring functions, the amount of retained data
        can grow very large, so it may become necessary to adjust the limits.


Related informationModifying Configuration Properties Using Cloudera ManagerConfiguring Health MonitoringDepending on the service or role you select, and the configuration category, you can     enable or disable health tests, determine when health tests cause alerts, or determine whether     specific health tests are used in computing the overall health of a role or service. In most     cases you can disable these "roll-up" health tests separately from the individual health     tests.Configuring Service MonitoringYou can configure different aspects of service monitoring. After you configure     monitoring for a service, restart the cluster.Configuring Host MonitoringYou can configure different aspects of host monitoring. After you configure monitoring     for a service, restart the cluster.Configuring Directory MonitoringCloudera Manager can perform threshold-based monitoring of free space in the various     directories on the hosts it monitor, such as log directories or checkpoint directories (for the     Secondary NameNode).Configuring YARN Application MonitoringYou can configure the visibility of the YARN application monitoring     results.Configuring Impala Query MonitoringYou can configure the visibility of the Impala query results and the size of the     storage allocated to Impala query results.Configuring Impala Query Data Store Maximum SizeYou can configure the Impala query data store size. The query store stores enough     information to make the query searchable through the filter language.Enabling Configuration Change AlertsYou can set configuration change alerts to be service-wide, or on specific roles for     the service.Filtering MetricsMetric Filters limit the amount of metric data reported to the     Cloudera Manager server to avoid gaps in the reported data. Configuring Log EventsYou can enable or disable the forwarding of selected log events to the Event     Server.