Creating a Trigger Using the Expression EditorCloudera Docs
Creating a Trigger Using the Expression Editor


The Create New Trigger  screen allows you to use a graphical editor
        to build the JSON string that defines a trigger. You can use the expression editor section
        to build the tsquery statement, or you can edit the tsquery statement manually. Triggers use
        the tsquery language to create trigger expressions. 
To create a trigger using the expression
        editor:Go to a service, role, role configuration group, or host
          configuration page and click the Create Trigger
          button next to the Health Test section. 



The Create New Trigger screen displays.
As you build the trigger, the actual query text displays to the
            right, along with a preview of a chart returned by the query. 
Enter a name for the trigger in the Name field.Build the metric expressions:

Select the function to use in your expression, either
                Last, Min, or
                Max.
Select the metric by typing its name in the
                Metric field. A list of available metrics
              displays as you type. 
Select the operator, either >,
                >=, =,
                <, or
              <=.
Enter the value to use for the comparison in the
                Value field. 
(Optional) Click the + icon to add
              additional expressions. Additional expressions are added to the
              query using the logical operator AND.

(Optional) Create a predicate for the query. Under
            Attribute Conditions, click the
            + icon to add an attribute condition.
A set of fields displays that you use to build an expression for
            the predicate.

Type the attribute name in the Attribute
              field. A list of attributes displays as you type. 
Select the operator, either = or
                RLIKE.
Enter the value for the comparison in the
                Value field. 
(Optional) Click the + icon to add
              additional expressions. Additional expressions are added to the
              predicate using the logical operator
              AND.

Select an Action from the drop-down menu
          to define the action taken when the trigger fires:

Mark as bad (red)
Mark as concerning (yellow)

Enter a value for the Stream Threshold. Leave the value set
          to 0 to include all streams; enter an integer to set the number of
          streams required to meet the condition. Select Enabled to enable the trigger. If you
        disable the trigger, it does not run. (Optional) Select Suppressed. A suppressed
        trigger still runs but does not impact the health display of the owning
        entity. Verify your expression:In the area to the right of the expression builder, in the Preview
            section, the expression you have built displays. A chart also displays the result of the
            query. Click Show Filtered Streams to
              see all streams. Click Hide Filtered Streams to hide streams
              that do not meet the stream threshold. You can edit your trigger using the
          fields in the expression builder, or you can click the Edit
            Manually link to display a text box in which you can manually edit the
          trigger. Click Use Editor to return to the expression builder.
            importantIf you select Edit Manually, changes you
            make manually do not appear in the expression builder when you click Use
              Editor. Click Create Trigger to save your trigger.
      
Related informationtsquery LanguageMetric ExpressionsPredicatesParent topic: Triggers