Changing the Chart TypeCloudera Docs
Changing the Chart Type
You can change a chart from one type to another.

Click Charts > Chart
            Builder to access the chart, or click the chart on the
          Cloudera Manager home page and then View Entity Chart.Click one of the chart types:


Line - Displays the points in the time series as
              continuous line.

Stack Area - Displays the points in the time series
              as continuous line and the area under the line filled in.

Bar - Displays each the value of the metric averaged
              over a second as a bar.

Scatter - Displays the points in the time series as
              dots.

Heatmap - Displays a metric
              thermometer and grid of colored squares. The thermometer displays
              buckets that represent a range of metric values and a color coding
              for the bucket. Each square represents an entity and the color of
              the square represents the value of a metric within a range. The
              following heatmap shows the last value of the resident memory for
              the NodeManager, ImpalaD, DataNode, and RegionServer roles.




Histogram - Displays the time
              series values as a set of bars where each bar represents a range
              of metric values and the height of the bar represents the number
              of entities whose value falls within the range. The following
              histogram shows the number of roles in each range of the last
              value of the resident memory.




Table - Displays the time series values as a table
              with each row containing the data for a single time value.


noteHeatmaps and histograms render charts for a single point as
              opposed to time series charts that render a series of points. For queries that return
              time series, Cloudera Manager will generate the heatmap or histogram based on the last
              recorded point in the series, and will issue the warning: "Query returned more than
              one value per stream. Only the last value was used." To eliminate this warning, use a
              scalar returning function to choose a point. For example, use select last(cpu_percent) to use the last
              point or select max(cpu_percent) to
              use the maximum value (in the selected time range).



Related informationMetric ExpressionsParent topic: Chart Properties