Command DetailsCloudera Docs
Command Details
You can view command details. The details available for a command depend on whether
    the command is running or recently completed.
Running Commands
The Running Commands area shows commands that are in progress.
While the status of the command is In
          Progress, an Abort button displays so that you can abort the
        command if necessary.
The Commands status information is updated automatically while the command is
          running.
After the command has finished running (all its subcommands have
        finished), the status is updated, the Abort buttons disappear, and
        the information for Recent Commands appears as described
        below.

Recent Commands
The Recent Commands area shows commands that were run and finished
        within the search time range you specified.
If no commands were run during the selected time
        range, you can double the time range selection by clicking the
          Try expanding the time range selection link. If
        you are in the "current time" mode, the beginning time will move; if you
        are looking at a time range in the past, both the beginning and ending
        times of the range are changed. You can also change the time range using
        the options described in the topic Time Line.
Select a value from the pager  to control how many commands are listed, or click the arrows to
        view pages.
Commands are shown with the most recent ones at the top.
The icon associated with the status (which typically includes the time
        that the command finished) plus the result message tells you whether the command succeeded
           or failed . If the command failed,
        it indicates if it was one of the subcommands that actually failed. In many cases, multiple
        subcommands result from the top level command.
The First Run command runs during the
        initial startup of your cluster. Click this link to view the command history of the cluster
        startup.

Command Details
In the Running Commands dialog box or Recent Commands page, click a
          command in the Command column to display its details and any
          subcommands. The page title is the name of the command.
The Summary section at the top shows information
        about the command:
The current status
The context, which can be a cluster, service, host, or role
The time the command started
The duration of the command
A message about the command completion
If the context is a role, links to role instance logs


The Details section shows how many steps, if
        any, the selected command has and lists any subcommands. 
Expand a command to view subcommands. In the Running Commands dialog box, each subcommand
          also has an Abort button that is present as long as the subcommand is in
          progress.
You can perform the following actions:
Select the option to display all the subcommands or only failed
              or running commands.
Click the link in the Context column to go to the
              Status page for the component (host, service,
            or role instance) to which this command is related.
Click a Role Log tab to display the log
              for that role, and stdout and
                stderr if available for the role.




Related informationTime LineParent topic: Viewing Running and Recent Commands