Impala TabCloudera Docs
Impala Tab
The Impala tab displays CPU and memory utilization for Impala queries using three tabs:
    Queries, Peak Memory Usage and Spilled Memory tab.
Queries Tab
The Overview tab displays information about Impala queries.
The top part of the page displays summary information about Impala queries for the entire
    cluster. The table in the lower part displays the same information by tenant. Both sections
    display the following:
Total – Total number of queries.Click the link with the total to
       view details and charts about the queries.
Avg Wait Time in Queue – Average time, in milliseconds, spent by a
      query in an Impala pool while waiting for resources. If this number is high, consider
      increasing the resources allocated to the pool. If this number is high for several pools,
      consider increasing the number of hosts in the cluster. 
Successful – The number and percentage of queries that finished
       successfully.Click the link with the total to view details and charts about the
       queries.
Memory Limit Exceeded – Number and percentage of queries that failed
      due to insufficient memory. If there are such queries, consider increasing the memory
      allocated to the pool. If there are several pools with such queries, consider increasing the
      number of hosts in the cluster. 
Timed Out in Queue – Number of queries that timed out while waiting
      for resources in a pool. If there are such queries, consider increasing the maximum number of
      running queries allowed for the pool. If there are several pools with such queries, consider
      increasing the number of hosts in the cluster. 
Rejected – Number of queries that were rejected by Impala because
      the pool was full. If this number is high, consider increasing the maximum number of queued
      queries allowed for the pool. 
Click the column header to sort the table by that column. 

Peak Memory Usage Tab
This report shows how Impala consumes memory at peak utilization. If utilization is high for a
    pool, consider adding resources to the pool. If utilization is high for several pools, consider
    adding more hosts to the cluster.
The Summary section of this page displays aggregated peak memory usage
    information for the entire cluster and the Utilization by Tenant section
    displays peak memory usage by tenant. Both sections display the following:
Max Allocated
Peak Allocation Time – The time when Impala reserved the maximum
        amount of memory for queries. Click the drop-down list next to the date and time and
         select View Impala Queries Running at the Time to see details about
         the queries. 
Max Allocated – The maximum memory that was reserved by Impala for
        executing queries. If the percentage is high, consider increasing the number of hosts in the
        cluster. 
 Utilized at the Time – The amount of memory used by Impala for
        running queries at the time when maximum memory was reserved.Click View Time
          Series Chart to view a chart of peak memory allocations. 
Histogram of Allocated Memory at Peak Allocation Time –
        Distribution of memory reserved per Impala daemon for executing queries at the time Impala
        reserved the maximum memory. If some Impala daemons have reserved memory close to the
        configured limit, consider adding more physical memory to the hosts.noteThis histogram is generated from the minute-level metrics for Impala daemons. If the
         minute-level metrics for the timestamp at which peak allocation happened are no longer
         present in the Cloudera Service Monitor Time-Series Storage, the histogram shows no data.
         To maintain a longer history for the minute-level metrics, increase the value of the
          Time-Series Storage property for the Cloudera Service Monitor. (Go
         to the Cloudera Management Service > Configuration and search for Time-Series Storage.)


Max Utilized

Peak Usage Time – The time when Impala used the maximum amount of
        memory for queries. Click the drop-down list next to the date and time and select
          View Impala Queries Running at the Time to see details about the
         queries. 
Max Utilized – The maximum memory that was used by Impala for
        executing queries. If the percentage is high, consider increasing the number of hosts in the
        cluster. 
 Reserved at the Time – The amount of memory reserved by Impala at
        the time when it was using the maximum memory for executing queries.Click View
          Time Series Chart to view a chart of peak memory utilization. 
Histogram of Utilized Memory at Peak Usage Time – Distribution of
        memory used per Impala daemon for executing queries at the time Impala used the maximum
        memory. If some Impala daemons are using memory close to the configured limit, consider
        adding more physical memory to the hosts.noteThis histogram is generated from the
         minute-level metrics for Impala daemons. If the minute-level metrics for the timestamp at
         which peak allocation happened are no longer present in the Cloudera Service Monitor
         Time-Series Storage, the histogram shows no data. To maintain a longer history for the
         minute-level metrics, increase the value of the Time-Series Storage
         property for the Cloudera Service Monitor. (Go to the Cloudera Management Service > Configuration and search for Time-Series Storage.)



Spilled Memory Tab
The Spilled Memory tab displays information about Impala spilled
    memory. These disk spills can deteriorate the performance of Impala queries significantly. This
    report shows the amount of disk spills for Impala queries by tenant. If disk spill is high for a
    pool, consider adding resources to the pool. If disk spill is high for several pools, consider
    adding more hosts to the cluster.
For each tenant, the following are displayed:
Average Spill – Average spill per query
Maximum Spill – Maximum memory spilled per hour



Parent topic: Use the Cluster Utilization Report to manage resources