Calculations for reportsCloudera Docs
Calculations for reports
Learn about how to correctly perform calculation using metrics values.
All the metrics return a time series of metric values. Depending on the collection
      frequency of the metric itself and the data granularity you use when issuing tsquery
      statements, the results return metric values in different frequencies and therefore there are
      different ways to handle the metric values. 
Note the following about how to correctly perform
   calculations using metric values:

YARN container metrics are generated once per hour
      resulting in one raw metric value every hour. Therefore, the most
      detailed results possible for YARN CPU and memory usage are hourly
      reports.


Hourly aggregates are summarized from raw metric values. These aggregates include
      a set of statistics that include the sum, maximum, minimum, count and other statistics that
      summarize the raw metric values. When you use the hourly granularity, you lose the single
      values of the raw metric values. However, you can still get peak usage data for such
      metrics.


For some of the YARN metrics described in this topic,
      the tsquery statement aggregates from the pool and user level to
      pool level in the Cloudera Manager Cluster Utilization reports.
      For these queries, because the maximum and minimum for different
      pool and user combinations are not likely to happen at the same
      time, there is no way to get the peak usage across pool and user
      combinations, or at the pool level. The only meaningful results
      possible are average and sum.


When calculating CPU/Memory usage percentage, pay
      attention to the units for each metric. For example, if the
      cluster consistently has 8 VCores, the total VCore seconds for
      each hour would be 8 * 3600 VCore seconds. You can then use this
      adjusted number to compare with the VCore seconds used by YARN or
      YARN pools.



Parent topic: Creating a Custom Cluster Utilization Report