Enable the Cluster Utilization ReportCloudera Docs
Enable the Cluster Utilization Report
You must configure several parameters to enable the Cluster Utilization
    Report.

Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
By default, the Cluster Utilization Report displays aggregated CPU and memory
        utilization for an entire cluster and for YARN and Impala utilization. You can also view
        this utilization by tenants, which include Linux users and Dynamic Resource Pools. To
        see utilization for a tenant, you must configure the tenant and define resource limits for
        it.

Enable YARN utilization metrics collection:
In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Use the Search function to locate the configuration properties
          mentioned below.
In the Container Usage MapReduce Job User
          property, enter a username for the MapReduce job that collects the
          metrics.
The username you enter must be a Linux user on all the cluster
          hosts. If you are using an Active Directory KDC, the username must
          also exist in Active Directory. For secure clusters, the user must not
          be banned or below the minimum user ID. You can view the list of
          banned users (banned.users) and the minimum user ID
            (min.user.id) by under YARN Configuration in
          Cloudera Manager.The user that is configured with the
              Container Usage MapReduce Job User property
            in the YARN service requires permissions to read the subdirectories
            of the HDFS directory specified with the Cloudera Manager
              Container Usage Metrics Directory property. The
            default umask of 022 allows any user to read from that directory.
            However, if a more strict umask (for example, 027) is used, then
            those directories are not readable by any user. In that case the
            user specified with the Container Usage MapReduce Job User property
            should be added to the same group that owns the subdirectories.
            For example, if the
              /tmp/cmYarnContainerMetrics/20161010 subdirectory
            is owned by user and group yarn:hadoop, the user
            specified in Container Usage MapReduce Job User
            should be added to the hadoop group.The
            directories you specify with the Cloudera Manager Container Usage
              Metrics Directory and Container Usage Output Directory
            properties should not be located in encryption zones.

Optionally, enter the resource pool in which the container usage collection MapReduce
          job runs in the Container Usage MapReduce Job Pool property.

Cloudera recommends that you dedicate a resource pool for running this MapReduce
            job.
If you specify a custom resource pool, ensure that the placement rules for the cluster
            allow for it. The first rule must be for resource pools to be specified at run time with
            the Create pool if it does not exist option selected. Alternatively,
            ensure that the pool you specify already exists. If the placement rule is not properly
            configured or the resource pool does not already exist, the job may run in a different
            pool.


You must select Enable Container Usage Metric Collection.

Click Save Changes.

Click the Actions button.

Select Create CM Container Usage Metrics
          Dir.

Restart the YARN service.
Enable Impala utilization collection:
In Cloudera Manager, select the Impala service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Search for admission control.

Find the Enable Impala Admission Control and the
            Enable Dynamic Resource Pools properties and enable both of
          them.

Click Save Changes.

Restart the Impala service.


Parent topic: Cluster Utilization Report overview