EventsCloudera Docs
Events

An event is a record that something of interest has occurred – a
      service's health has changed state, a log message (of the appropriate
      severity) has been logged, and so on. Many events are enabled and
      configured by default.
From the
        Events page you can filter for events for services or role instances,
      hosts, users, commands, and much more. You can also search against the content information
      returned by the event.
The Event Server aggregates relevant events and makes them available for
      alerting and for searching. This way, you have a view into the history of
      all relevant events that occur cluster-wide.
Cloudera Manager supports the following categories of
        events:

Category
Description



ACTIVITY_EVENT
Generated by the Activity Monitor; specifically,
                for jobs that fail, or that run slowly (as determined by comparison with duration
                limits). In order to monitor your workload for slow-running jobs, you must specify
                activity duration rules.


AUDIT_EVENT
Generated by actions performed
In Cloudera Manager, such as creating, configuring,
                    starting, stopping, and deleting services or roles
By services that are being audited by Cloudera
                    Navigator.




HBASE
Generated by HBase with the exception of log messages,
                which have the LOG_MESSAGE category.


HEALTH_CHECK
Indicate that certain health test activities have
                occurred, or that health test results have met specific conditions (thresholds).Thresholds for various health tests can be set under the Configuration tabs for HBase, HDFS, Impala, and
                  MapReduce service instances, at both the service and role level. 



LOG_MESSAGE
Generated for certain types of log messages from
                HDFS, MapReduce, and HBase services and roles. Log events are created when a log
                entry matches a set of rules for identifying messages of interest. The default set
                of rules is based on Cloudera experience supporting Hadoop clusters. You can
                configure additional log event rules if necessary.


SYSTEM
Generated by system events such as parcel
                availability.



For detailed information on each supported event, see the Cloudera Manager
      Events reference documentation.

Related informationConfiguring Health MonitoringConfiguring Log EventsCloudera Manager Events ReferenceViewing EventsFiltering Events