Managing AlertsCloudera Docs
Managing Alerts

Minimum Required Role:
Limited Cluster
            Administrator  (also provided by Full
          Administrator and Cluster
          Administrator)
The Administration > Alerts page provides a summary of
      the settings for alerts in your clusters.
Alert Type The left column lets you select by alert type (Health, Log, or
      Activity) and within that by service instance. In the case of Health
      alerts, you can look at alerts for Hosts as well. You can select an
      individual service to see just the alert settings for that service.
Health/Log/Activity Alert Settings Depending on your selection in the
      left column, the right hand column show you the list of alerts that are
      enabled or disabled for the selected service type.
To change the alert settings for a service, click Edit next to the
      service name. This will take you to the Monitoring section of the Configuration tab for the
      service. From here you can enable or disable alerts and configure thresholds as needed.
Recipients You can also view the list of recipients configured for the
      enabled alerts.
Configuring Alert Delivery
When you install Cloudera Manager you can configure the mail server you
        will use with the Alert Publisher. However, if you need to change these
        settings, you can do so under the Alert Publisher section of the
        Management Services configuration tab. Under the Alert Publisher role of
        the Cloudera Manager Management Service, you can configure email or SNMP
        delivery of alert notifications and you can also configure a custom
        script that runs in response to an alert.


Viewing Which Alerts are Enabled and Disabled
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
Select
            Administration > Alerts.


Parent topic: Alerts