Filtering MetricsCloudera Docs
Filtering Metrics
Metric Filters limit the amount of metric data reported to the
    Cloudera Manager server to avoid gaps in the reported data. 

Metrics Filters allow you to limit the
        amount of metric data sent to the Cloudera Manager Service Monitor. In
        large clusters, some services, such as Kudu, send a high volume of
        non-essential metrics data to the Service Monitor, which can overload
        it, causing gaps in the data reported from these metrics in
        charts/dashboards and metrics queries, and potentially limiting the
        ability for Cloudera Manager to effectively monitor cluster health . To
        mitigate this problem, you can configure Metric Filters that
        limit the amount of data sent to the Service Monitor and Host Monitor.
        You can configure Metric Filters for any service deployed in a cluster. 
You can configure the filter in several ways:

Limit the collected metrics to only include those required
          for Health Tests. 
Limit the collected metrics to only include metrics used
          in the charts on the main page (‘Dashboard’) of the service.
Include specific metrics - only the specified metrics will
          be collected for this service
Exclude specific metrics - the specified metrics will not be
          collected for this service


To configure a Metric Filter:Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin
        Console.Navigate to the cluster where you want to add the
          filter.Click
              Configuration > Metric
              Filters.
The Configuration page displays the Metric Filter parameter for all
            roles in the cluster.
You can now choose whether to edit all the Metric Filters using the
            same values, or edit the filter for a specific role.
Do one of the following:
To configure the filter for a specific role, click the Edit
            Individual Values link and locate the parameter for the service.
            Follow the steps below. 
To configure the same filter for all roles, edit the Default
            Group. 
Select one of the following:
Include Only Health Test Metric Set
Include Only Default Dashboard Metric Set
To filter specific metrics: 
Select either Include or Exclude from the
              ‘Include/Exclude Custom Metrics’ drop-down
              list.If you selected either of the Metric sets,
              and select Include, the custom metrics will be added to the
              selected Metrics sets. If you select Exclude, they will be
              excluded from the selected sets.
Click the “Plus” icon to add a metric.
Enter the metric name.
Click the “Plus” icon to add additional
            metrics.

noteYou can find the names of specific metrics you would like to
            include or exclude either from the Cloudera Manager Metrics
            Reference (see link below) or from a chart that is displaying the
            required metrics in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, as follows: 
Go to the Status page for a cluster or service.
In a chart, click the gear icon and select Open
                  in Chart Builder.The query displays at the top of the
                  page. Metric names are part of the query. For example, the
                  following
                  query:select dfs_capacity, dfs_capacity_used, dfs_capacity_used_non_hdfs where entityName=$SERVICENAME
                  contains the following metric names:

dfs_capacity
Dfs_capacity_used
dfs_capacity_used_non_hdfs



Click Save Changes.Refresh the cluster: 
Go the cluster's Status page.
Click
                  Actions > Refresh
                  Cluster. This action does not
              restart the cluster.The cluster configuration is
              refreshed.

noteYou can configure Cloudera Manager to automatically refresh the
            cluster after you update Metric configurations by enabling the
              Enable auto refresh for metric
              configurations parameter. This parameter is set at the
            role level, and, when set to true, Cloudera Manager
            refreshes only the role affected by a change to the metric filter or
            collection enable settings, not the entire cluster. 


noteIf you do not select any options, all metrics for the service will
        be sent to the Service Monitor and Host Monitor.


Related informationCloudera Manager Metrics Reference Parent topic: Configuring Monitoring SettingsParent topic: Charting Time-Series Data