Monitoring ClustersCloudera Docs
Monitoring Clusters
There are several locations in Cloudera Manager where you can monitor
    clusters.
The Clusters tab in the top navigation bar displays each cluster's
      services in its own section, with the Cloudera Management Service separately below. You can
      select the following cluster-specific pages: hosts, reports, activities, and resource
      management.
The Home > Status tab
      displays the clusters being displayed by Cloudera Manager.
To display a cluster Status page, click the cluster name on the
          Home > Status tab
      Status tab. The cluster Status page displays a table containing links to the Hosts page and
      the status pages of the services running in the cluster.
Each service row in the table has a menu of actions that you select by
      clicking  and can contain one or more of the following indicators:

Indicator
Meaning
Description




Health issue
Indicates that the service has at least one health issue. The indicator shows the number of health issues at the highest
                  severity level. If there are Bad health test results, the indicator is red. If
                  there are no Bad health test results, but Concerning test results exist, then the
                  indicator is yellow. No indicator is shown if there are no Bad or Concerning
                  health test results.importantIf there is
                  one Bad health test result and two Concerning health results, there will be three
                  health issues, but the number will be one.Click the indicator to display
                  the Health Issues pop-up dialog box.By default only Bad health test results are shown in the
                    dialog box. To display Concerning health test results, click the Also
                      show n concerning issue(s) link.Click the link to display the Status page containing with
                    details about the health test result.



Configuration issue
Indicates that the service has at least one configuration issue. The indicator shows the number of configuration issues at the
                  highest severity level. If there are configuration errors, the indicator is red.
                  If there are no errors but configuration warnings exist, then the indicator is
                  yellow. No indicator is shown if there are no configuration
                  notifications.importantIf there is one
                  configuration error and two configuration warnings, there will be three
                  configuration issues, but the number will be one.Click the indicator to
                  display the Configuration Issues pop-up dialog
                    box.By default only notifications at the Error
                    severity level are listed, grouped by service name are shown in the dialog box.
                    To display Warning notifications, click the Also show
                        n warning(s) link.Click the message associated with an error or warning to be taken to the
                    configuration property for which the notification has been issued where you can
                    address the issue. For more information see the topic Managing
                    Services.


 Restart Needed Refresh Needed
Configuration modified
Indicates that at least one of a service's roles is running
                with a configuration that does not match the current
                configuration settings in Cloudera Manager.Click the indicator to display the
                      Stale Configurations page.To
                  bring the cluster up-to-date, click the
                    Refresh or
                    Restart button on the
                    Stale Configurations page to refresh
                  the cluster, restart the cluster, or  restart the stale
                  service.



Client configuration redeployment required
Indicates that the client configuration for a service
                should be redeployed.Click the indicator to display the
                      Stale Configurations page.  To
                  bring the cluster up-to-date, click the Deploy
                    Client Configuration button on the Stale
                  Configurations page or manually redeploy the Client
                  Configuration.


The right side of the status page displays charts that summarize resource
      utilization (IO, CPU usage) and processing metrics. 

noteIf you delete a cluster, the deleted cluster still displays in some
        charts. This is because the charts also show historical data. Over time,
        data from the deleted cluster will drop off as older data is replaced by
        more current data. You can work around this by: 
Waiting for the data from the deleted cluster to drop off.
Editing the where clause of query for the chart
            to include only the cluster(s) you are interested in. (For example:
              clusterDisplayName=Cluster_1). You can revert to
            the original query at a later date, after the data for the deleted
            cluster has dropped off. See the topic Charting Time-Series
            Data.
Deleting all data in the Host Monitor and Service Monitor storage
            directories and starting from scratch. You will, however, loose all
            historical data from both current and deleted clusters. See Configuring Service Monitor Data
              Storage and Configuring Host Monitor Data
              Storage  to learn where the storage directories are
            located.



Related informationMonitoring ActivitiesReportsManaging Cloudera Runtime ServicesDashboardsCharting Time-Series DataClient Configuration FilesManually Redeploying Client Configuration FilesStale ConfigurationsViewing Role Instance Status