Manually Triggering Collection and Transfer of Diagnostic Data to ClouderaCloudera Docs
Manually Triggering Collection and Transfer of Diagnostic Data to Cloudera
To troubleshoot specific problems, or to re-send an automatic bundle that failed to
    send, you can manually send diagnostic data to Cloudera.


Optionally, change the System Identifier property. 
Under the Other category, set the System Identifier property and click
            Save Changes.Fill in or change the information here as appropriate:

Optionally, you can improve performance by reducing the size of the data bundle that
              is sent. Click Restrict log and metrics collection to expand this section of
              the form. The three filters, Host, Service, and Role Type, allow
              you to restrict the data that will be sent. Cloudera Manager will only collect logs
              and metrics for roles that match all three filters.
Select one of the following under Data Selection:
Select By Target Size to manually set the maximum size of
                  the bundle. Cloudera Manager populates the End Time based on the setting of
                  the Time Range selector. You should change this to be a few minutes after you
                  observed the problem or condition that you are trying to capture. The time range
                  is based on the timezone of the host where Cloudera Manager Server is
                  running.
Select By Date Range to manually set the Start
                    Time and End Time to collect the diagnostic
                  data. Click the Estimate button to calculate the size of
                  the bundle based on the start and end times. If the bundle is too large, narrow
                  the selection using the start and end times or by selecting additional
                  filters.

If you have a support ticket open with Cloudera Support, include the support ticket
              number in the field provided.

Depending on whether you have disabled automatic sending of data, do one of the
          following:

Click Collect and Upload Diagnostic Data to Cloudera Support. A Running
              Commands window shows you the progress of the data collection steps. When these steps
              are complete, the collected data is sent to Cloudera.
Click Collect Diagnostic Data only. A Command Details window shows you the
              progress of the data collection steps.
In the Command Details window, click Download Result Data to download and
                  save a zip file of the information.
Send the data to Cloudera Support by doing one of the following:
Send the bundle using a Python script:
Download the phone_home script.
Copy the script and the downloaded data file to a host that has Internet
                          access.
Run the following command on that
                          host:python phone_home.py --file downloaded data file

Attach the bundle to the SFDC case. Do not rename the bundle as this can
                      cause a delay in processing the bundle.
Contact Cloudera Support and arrange to send the data
                      file.





Parent topic: Sending Usage and Diagnostic Data to Cloudera