Inspecting Network PerformanceCloudera Docs
Inspecting Network Performance

The Network Performance Inspector allows you to
      examine the network performance among hosts and clusters managed by an
      instance of Cloudera Manager. You can use this tool to diagnose networking
      issues that can significantly affect the performance of workloads such as
      MapReduce jobs, Spark jobs,  Hive queries, and Impala queries,
      particularly when using remote storage. You can run the inspector
      on-demand, and it also available when adding a new cluster. You can also
      run the inspector using the Cloudera Manager API.
The Network Performance Inspector runs the
      following types of inspections: 
Latency testThe inspector runs ping commands from each
            host to all other hosts, and reports the average ping time and
            packet loss percentage. You can run the latency test among
            the hosts in a single cluster and between hosts in different
            clusters. 
Bandwidth TestThe bandwidth test measures the speed of
            data transfer between the hosts. You can use this information to
            identify problematic hosts or networking infrastructure issues so
            that you take corrective action. You can run the bandwidth
            test only between clusters managed by an instance of Cloudera
            Manager.




Running the Network Performance Inspector From the Cloudera Manager
      Admin Console

Minimum Required Role:
Key
            Administrator
or
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
        Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
To run the Network Performance Inspector:
Open the Network Performance Inspector from
            one of the following pages in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console:
From the All Hosts page:
Select
                        Hosts > All
                        Hosts. 
Click the Inspect Network
                      Performance button to launch the
                    inspector.

From the Cluster Status page:
Select
                          Clusters > Cluster
                          Name

In the Status section, click the
                      Hosts link at the top of the list
                    of Cluster Services to open the Hosts
                    page. 
Click the Inspect Cluster Network
                      Performance button to launch the inspector.
                  

The Inspect Network Performance
              dialog box opens. 
Enter the following information:
Source Cluster – Select a cluster to
                inspect from the drop-down list. Select Run
                    against another cluster to select additional
                  clusters. An additional drop-down list displays from which you
                  can select an additional cluster to inspect. Select either the
                    Latency Test or the
                    Latency and Bandwidth Test
                  option.
Ping Timeout – Amount of time, in
                seconds, after which the inspector reports a failure. 
Ping Count – Number of times the
                inspector pings each host.
Ping Packet Size – Size, in bytes, of
                the test packet sent when pinging the hosts. 

Click Run.The Cluster
                Performance Inspector command window opens. When the
              Inspector finishes, click the Show Inspector
                Results button to open the  Network
                Performance Inspector Results page. 

Select Show Hosts with Issues
              to display any problems found by the inspector, or select
                Show All Hosts. The Network
                Diagnostic Result page displays a table of results.
              Each row represents a single host. The Target Hosts
                Summary column summarizes the performance of the
              host. Click the summary text to view detailed performance
              statistics from this host to each of the other hosts.

The inspector summarizes the latency and bandwidth tests
              for the hosts using three icons: Table 1. 

Status
Bandwidth Test
Latency Test



GreenGood network
                        performance.
More than 500 MBits/Second
No packet loss. 


OrangeConcerning network
                        performance
250 - 500 MBits/Second
Any host with a ping latency in the range of 1 to 4
                        milliseconds.


RedBad network performance.
Less than 250 MBits/Second
Any target host that is unreachable by hostname
                        (has a 100% packet loss), any host with a ping latency
                        greater than 4 milliseconds, or any target host with a
                        packet loss of 1% or greater.

 Poor performance can result from firewall
              settings, router configurations, network topology, and other
              factors. You may need to work with your network administrator to
              mitigate these issues.




Running the Network Performance Inspector From the Cloudera Manager
      API

You can invoke the Network Performance Inspector using the Cloudera
        Manager API and the following endpoints:
/cm/commmands/hostsPerfInspectorInvokes the
              inspector across an arbitrary set of hosts, (including hosts that
              are not part of the cluster).
/cm/commands/clusterPerfInspectorInvokes the
              inspector across the hosts in two clusters. 
/cm/clusters/cluster
              Name/commands/perfInspectorInvokes the
              inspector across the hosts of a specified cluster.

For more information, see the Cloudera Manager API REST
        documentation.


