Query DetailsCloudera Docs
Query Details
The Query Details page contains the low-level details of how a
    SQL query is processed through Impala. 
The initial information on the page can help you tune the performance of some kinds of
      queries, primarily those involving joins. The more detailed information on the page is
      primarily for troubleshooting with the assistance of Cloudera Support; you might be asked to
      attach the contents of the page to a trouble ticket. The Query Details
      page displays the following information that is also available in the Query Profile.
        
To download the contents of the query profile details, select one of the
        following:
Download
            Profile... or
              Download
              Profile... > Download Text
              Profile... - to download a text version
          of the query detail.
Download
              Profile... > Download Thrift Encoded
              Profile... - to download a binary
          version of the query detail.

Query Plan
The Query Plan section can help you diagnose and tune performance issues with
        queries. This information is especially useful to understand performance
        issues with join queries, such as inefficient order of tables in the SQL
        statement, lack of table and column statistics, and the need for query
        hints to specify a more efficient join mechanism. You can also learn
        valuable information about how queries are processed for partitioned
        tables.
The information in this section corresponds to the output of the
        EXPLAIN statement for the Impala query. Each fragment
        shown in the query plan corresponds to a processing step that is
        performed by the central coordinator host or distributed across the
        hosts in the cluster.

Query Timeline
The Query Timeline section reports statistics about the execution time
        for phases of the query.

Planner Timeline
The Planner Timeline reports statistics about the execution time for
        phases of the query planner.

Query Info
The Query Info section reports the attributes of the query, start and end time,
        duration, and statistics about HDFS access. You can hover over an
        attribute for information about the attribute name and supported values
        (for enumerated values). For example:




Query Fragments
The Query Fragments section reports detailed low-level statistics for
        each query plan fragment, involving physical aspects such as CPU
        utilization, disk I/O, and network traffic. This is the primary
        information that Cloudera Support might use to help troubleshoot
        performance issues and diagnose bugs. The details for each fragment
        display on separate tabs.


Related informationUnderstanding Performance using Query ProfileParent topic: Monitoring Activities