Role Instance ReferenceCloudera Docs
Role Instance Reference
The following tables contain reference information on the status, role state, and
    health columns for role instances.Table 1. Status

Indicator
Status
Description




Started with outdated configuration
For a service, this indicates the service is running, but at least one of its
                roles is running with a configuration that does not match the current configuration
                settings in Cloudera Manager. For a role, this indicates a configuration change has
                been made that requires a restart, and that restart has not yet occurred. 



Starting
The entity is starting up but is not yet running.



Stopping
The entity is stopping but has not stopped yet.



Stopped
The entity is stopped, as expected.



Down
The entity is not running, but it is expected to be running.



History not available
Cloudera Manager is in historical mode, and the entity does not have historical
              monitoring support. This is the case for services other than HDFS, MapReduce and HBase
              such as ZooKeeper, Oozie, and Hue.



None
The entity does not have a status. For example, it is not something that can be
              running and it cannot have health. Examples are the HDFS Balancer (which runs from the
              HDFS Rebalance action) or Gateway roles. The Start and Stop commands are not
              applicable to these instances.



Good health
The entity is running with good health. For a specific health test, the returned
              result is normal or within the acceptable range. For a role or service, this means all
              health tests for that role or service are Good.


  
Concerning health
The entity is running with concerning health. For a specific health test, the
              returned result indicates a potential problem. Typically this means the test result
              has gone above (or below) a configured Warning threshold. For a role or service, this
              means that at least one health test is Concerning.



Bad health
The entity is running with bad health. For a specific health test, the test
              failed, or the returned result indicates a serious problem. Typically this means the
              test result has gone above (or below) a configured Critical threshold. For a role or
              service, this means that at least one health test is Bad.



Disabled health
The entity is running, but all of its health tests are disabled.



Unknown health
The status of a service or role instance is unknown. This can occur for a number
              of reasons, such as the Service Monitor is not running, or connectivity to the Agent
              doing the health monitoring has been lost.


Related informationStale ConfigurationsParent topic: Viewing Service Instance Details