StatusCloudera Docs
Status
The Status page is displayed when a host is initially selected.
    It provides summary information about the status of the selected host. Use the
      Status page to gain an understanding of work being done by the system,
    the configuration, and health status.
If this
      host has been decommissioned or is in maintenance mode, you will see the following icon(s)
        (,) in the top bar of the page next to the status message.
Details
This panel provides basic system configuration such as the host's IP address,
          rack, health status summary, and disk and CPU resources. This
          information summarizes much of the detailed information provided in
          other panes on this tab. To view details about the Host agent, click
          the Host Agent link in the Details section.

Health Tests
Cloudera Manager monitors a variety of metrics that are used to indicate whether
          a host is functioning as expected. The Health Tests panel shows health
          test results in an expandable/collapsible list, typically with the
          specific metrics that the test returned. (You can Expand All or
          Collapse All from the links at the upper right of the Health Tests
          panel).

The color of the text (and the background color of the field) for a health test
            result indicates the status of the results. The tests are sorted by
            their health status – Good, Concerning, Bad, or Disabled. The list
            of entries for good and disabled health tests are collapsed by
            default; however, Bad or Concerning results are shown expanded.
The text of a health test also acts as a link to further
          information about the test. Clicking the text will pop up a window with further
          information, such as the meaning of the test and its possible results, suggestions for
          actions you can take or how to make configuration changes related to the test. The help
          text for a health test also provides a link to the relevant monitoring configuration
          section for the service. 


Health History
The Health History provides a record of state transitions of the health tests
          for the host.

Click the arrow symbol at the left to view the description of the health test
            state change.
Click the View link to open a new page that shows the state of the host
            at the time of the transition. In this view some of the status
            settings are greyed out, as they reflect a time in the past, not the
            current status.


File Systems
The File systems panel provides information about disks, their mount points and
          usage. Use this information to determine if additional disk space is
          required.

Roles
Use the Roles panel to see the role instances running on the selected
        host, as well as each instance's status and health. Hosts are configured with one or more
        role instances, each of which corresponds to a service. The role indicates which daemon runs
        on the host. Some examples of roles include the NameNode, Secondary NameNode, Balancer,
        JobTrackers, DataNodes, RegionServers and so on. Typically a host will run multiple roles in
        support of the various services running in the cluster.
Clicking the role name takes you to the role instance's status page.
You can delete a role from the host from the Instances tab of the
        Service page for the parent service of the role. You can add a role to a host in the same
        way. 

Charts
Charts are shown for each host instance in your cluster.
See the topic Viewing Charts for Cluster, Service, Role, and
          Host Instances for detailed information on the charts that are presented, and the
        ability to search and display metrics of your choice.


Related informationConfiguring Monitoring SettingsRole InstancesViewing Charts for Cluster, Service, Role, and Host InstancesParent topic: Host Details