Selecting a Point In Time or a Time RangeCloudera Docs
Selecting a Point In Time or a Time Range
Depending on what page the Time Line appears, you can select a point in time or a time
    range. 
There are
      two ways to look at information about your cluster—its current status and health, or its
      status and health at some point (or during some interval) in the past. When you are looking at
      a point in the past, some functions may not be available. For example, on a Service Status
      page, the Actions menu (where you can take actions like
      stopping, starting, or restarting services or roles) is accessible only when you are looking
      at Current status.
Selecting a Point in Time
Status information on pages such as the service Status pages, reflects the state at a single point in time
        (a snapshot of the health and status). When displayed data is from a single point in time (a
        snapshot), the panel or column displays a small version of the Time Marker icon () in the panel. This indicates that the data corresponds to the
        time at the location of the Time Marker on the Time Line.
By default, the status is shown at the current time. If you specify an earlier
          point on the time range graph, you see the status as it was at the
          selected point in the past.
When the Time Marker is set to the current time, it is blue
              ().
When the Time Marker is set to a time in
            the past, it is orange ().





You can select the point in time in one of the following ways:
By moving the Time Marker ()
When the Time Marker is set to a past time, you can quickly
            switch back to view the current time using the Now button ().
By clicking the date, choosing the date and time, and clicking
                Apply.



Selecting a Time Range
Pages such as the Logs, Events, and Activities show data over a time range
          rather than at a single point. These default to showing the past 30
          minutes of data (ending at the current time). The charts that appear
          on the individual Service Status and Host Status pages also show data
          over a time range. For this type of display, there are several ways to
          select a time range of interest:
Drag one (or both) edges of the time range handles to expand or contract the
              range.
Choose a duration by clicking a duration link  and then do one of the following:
Click the next  or  previous buttons to select the next or previous
                duration.
Click somewhere in the dark portion of the time range to
                choose the selected duration.


Click the date range  to open the time
            selection widget. Enter a start and end time and click Apply to put your choice into
            effect.
When you are under the Clusters tab with an individual activity selected,
              a Zoom to Duration button is available. This lets you zoom
              the time selection to include just the time range that corresponds
              to the duration of your selected activity.




Parent topic: Time Line