Solutions to Common ProblemsCloudera Docs
Solutions to Common Problems
The table below describes solutions to common cluster configuration
    problems.

Symptom
Reason
Solution




Cloudera Manager



The Cloudera Manager service will not be running as it exited in an unusual
                  manner.Running service cloudera-scm-server status will print
                  following message "cloudera-scm-server dead but pid file exists".
The Cloudera Manager Server log file
                    /var/log/cloudera-scm-server/cloudera-scm-server.log will have
                  a stacktrace with "java.lang.OutOfMemoryError" logged.

Out of memory.
Examine the heap dump that the Cloudera Manager Server creates when it runs out
                of memory. The heap dump file is created in the
                /tmp directory, has file extension
                .hprof and file permission of 600. Its owner
                and group will be the owner and group of the Cloudera Manager
                server process, normally
                cloudera-scm:cloudera-scm.


You are unable to start service on the Cloudera Manager server, that is,
                service cloudera-scm-server start does not work
                and there are errors in the log file located at
                /var/log/cloudera-scm-server/cloudera-scm-server.log

The server has been disconnected from the database or the
                database has stopped responding or has shut down.
Go to /etc/cloudera-scm-server/db.properties and make sure the
                database you are trying to connect to is listed there and has
                been started.


Logs include APPARENT DEADLOCK entries for c3p0.
These deadlock messages are cause by the c3p0 process not making progress at the
                expected rate. This can indicate either that c3p0 is deadlocked
                or that its progress is slow enough to trigger these messages.
                In many cases, progress is occurring and these messages should
                not be seen as catastrophic.
There are a variety of ways to react to these log entries.
You may ignore these messages if system performance is not otherwise affected.
                    Because these entries often occur during slow progress, they
                    may be ignored in some cases.
You may modify the timer triggers. If c3p0 is making slow progress,
                    increasing the period of time during which progress is evaluated stop the log
                    entries from occurring. The default time between Timer triggers is 10 seconds
                    and is configurable indirectly by configuring
                      maxAdministrativeTaskTime. 
You may increase the number of threads in the c3p0 pool, thereby
                    increasing the resources available to make progress on tasks.





Starting Services



After you click the Start button to start a service, the Finished
                status does not display.This may not be merely a case of the status not getting displayed. It could be
                  for a number of reasons such as network connectivity issues or
                  subcommand failures.

The host is disconnected from the Server, as will be indicated by missing
                heartbeats on the Hosts tab.


Look at the logs for the service for causes of the problem.
Restart the Agents on the hosts where the heartbeats are missing.




Subcommands failed resulting in errors in the log file indicating that either
                the command timed out or the target port was already occupied


Look at the log file at
                    /var/log/cloudera-scm-server/cloudera-scm-server.log
                    for more details on the errors. For example, if the port is
                    already occupied you should see an "Address in use" error.
Go to the Hosts > Status tab. Click the
                      Name of the host you want to inspect. Now go to the
                      Processes tab and check the Stdout/Stderr
                    logs to diagnose the cause of the failure. For example, if
                    any binaries are missing or if Java could not be found.




After you click Start to start a service, the Finished status
                displays but there are error messages. The subcommands to start
                service components (such as JobTracker and one or more
                TaskTrackers) do not start.
A port specified in the Configuration tab of the service is already being
                used in your cluster. For example, the JobTracker port is in use
                by another process.
Enter an available port number in the port property (such as JobTracker
                port) in the Configuration tab of the service.


There are incorrect directories specified in the Configuration tab of the
                service (such as the log directory).
Enter correct directories in the Configuration tab of the service.



Job is Failing

No space left on device.
One approach is to use a system monitoring tool such as Nagios to alert on the
                disk space or quickly check disk space across all systems. If
                you do not have Nagios or equivalent you can do the following to
                determine the source of the space issue:In the JobTracker Web UI, drill down from the job, to the map or reduce, to the
                  task attempt details to see which TaskTracker the task
                  executed and failed on due to disk space. For example:
                  http://JTHost:50030/taskdetails.jsp?tipid=TaskID
.
                  You can see on which host the task is failing in the Machine
                  column.
In the NameNode Web UI, inspect the % used column on the NameNode Live Nodes
                  page:
                  http://namenode:50070/dfsnodelist.jsp?whatNodes=LIVE.




Send Test Alert and Diagnose SMTP Errors



You have enabled sending alerts from the Cloudera Manager Admin Console,
                however, Cloudera Manager does not seem to be sending any
                alerts.Using the Send Test Alert link under Administration > Alerts shows success
                  even though you do not receive an alert email.

There is possibly a mismatch of protocol or port numbers
                between your mail server and the Alert Publisher. For example,
                if the Alert Publisher is sending alerts to SMTPS on port 465
                and your mail servers are not configured for SMTPS, you wouldn't
                receive any alerts.
Use the following steps to make changes to the Alert Publisher configuration:
In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, click the Cloudera Management Service.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > Alert Publisher.
Click the Main category.
Change Alerts: Mail Server Protocol to
                      smtp (or smtps).
Click the Ports and Addresses category and change
                    Alerts: Mail Server TCP Port to
                    25 (or to 465 for SMTPS)
Enter a Reason for
            change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart the Alert Publisher.




Related informationmaxAdministrativeTaskTimenumHelperThreadsParent topic: Troubleshooting Cluster Configuration and Operation