Status SummaryCloudera Docs
Status Summary
The Status Summary shows the status of each service instance being managed by Cloudera
    Manager. 
Even
      services such as Hue, Oozie, or YARN (which are not monitored by Cloudera Manager) show a
      status summary. The overall status for a service is a roll-up of the health test results for
      the service and all its role instances. The Status can
      be:
Table 1. Status

Indicator
Status
Description






Started with outdated configuration
For a service, this indicates the service is
              running, but at least one of its roles is running with a configuration that does not
              match the current configuration settings in Cloudera Manager. For a role, this
              indicates a configuration change has been made that requires a restart, and that
              restart has not yet occurred.  





Starting
The entity is starting up but is not yet running.





Stopping
The entity is stopping but has not stopped yet.





Stopped
The entity is stopped, as expected.





Down
The entity is not running, but it is expected to be running.





History not available
Cloudera Manager is in historical mode, and the entity does not have historical
                monitoring support. This is the case for services other than
                HDFS, MapReduce and HBase such as ZooKeeper, Oozie, and Hue.





None
The entity does not have a status. For example, it is not something that can be
                running and it cannot have health. Examples are the HDFS
                Balancer (which runs from the HDFS Rebalance action) or Gateway
                roles. The Start and Stop commands are not applicable to these
                instances.





Good health
The entity is running with good health. For a specific health test, the returned
                result is normal or within the acceptable range. For a role or
                service, this means all health tests for that role or service
                are Good.



  
Concerning health
The entity is running with concerning health. For a specific health test, the
                returned result indicates a potential problem. Typically this
                means the test result has gone above (or below) a configured
                Warning threshold. For a role or service, this means that at
                least one health test is Concerning.





Bad health
The entity is running with bad health. For a specific health test, the test
                failed, or the returned result indicates a serious problem.
                Typically this means the test result has gone above (or below) a
                configured Critical threshold. For a role or service, this means
                that at least one health test is Bad.





Disabled health
The entity is running, but all of its health tests are disabled.





Unknown health
The status of a service or role instance is unknown. This can occur for a number
                of reasons, such as the Service Monitor is not running, or
                connectivity to the Agent doing the health monitoring has been
                lost.


To see
      the status of one or more role instances, click the role type link under Status Summary. If there is a single instance of the role
      type, the link directs you to the Status page of the role instance.
If there are multiple role instances (such as for DataNodes,
        TaskTrackers, and RegionServers), the role type link directs you to the
        Role Instances page for that role type. Click on each instance, under
        Role Type, to be taken to the corresponding Status page. 
To display the results for each health test that applies to this role
        type, expand the Health Tests filter on the left
        and expand Good Health,
          Warnings, Bad Health, or
          Disabled Health. Health test results that have
        been filtered out by your role type selection appear as unavailable.

Related informationStale ConfigurationsViewing Role Instance StatusParent topic: Viewing Service Status