Time LineCloudera Docs
Time Line
The Time Line allows you to view status and health information for a specific point in
    time or across a range of time. The Time Line appears on many pages in Cloudera Manager.  
When you
      view the top level service and Hosts tabs, the Time Line shows status and health only for a
      specific point in time. When you are viewing the Logs and Events tabs, and when you are
      viewing the Status, Commands, Audits, Jobs, Applications, and Queries pages of individual
      services, roles, and hosts, the Time Line appears as a Time Range Selector, which lets you
      highlight a range of time over which to view historical data.
Click the
        () icon at the far right to turn on and turn off the display of the
      Time Line.
Cloudera Manager displays timestamped data using the time zone of the host where
      Cloudera Manager server is running. The time zone information can be found
      under the Support > About menu.
The background chart in the Time Line shows the percentage of CPU utilization on
      all hosts in the cluster, updated at approximately one-minute intervals,
      depending on the total visible time range. You can use this graph to
      identify periods of activity that may be of interest.
In the pages that support a time range selection, the
      area between the handles shows the selected time range.

 There are a variety of ways to change the time range in this
      mode.
The Reports screen (Clusters > Reports) does not support the Time
      Range Selector: the historical reports accessed from the Reports screen
      have their own time range selection mechanism.
Use the Zoom In and Zoom Out buttons ( and ) to zoom the time line graph in or out.


Zoom In shows a shorter time period with more detailed
        interval segments. Zooming does not change your selected time range. However, the ability to
        zoom the Time Line can make it easier to use the selector to highlight a time range.

Zoom Out lets you show a longer time period on the time
        range graph (with correspondingly less granular segmentation).


Selecting a Point In Time or a Time RangeDepending on what page the Time Line appears, you can select a point in time or a time     range. 