Sending Usage and Diagnostic Data to ClouderaCloudera Docs
Sending Usage and Diagnostic Data to Cloudera
Cloudera Manager collects anonymous usage information and takes regularly-scheduled
    snapshots of the state of your cluster and automatically sends them anonymously to Cloudera.
    This helps Cloudera improve and optimize Cloudera Manager.
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
If you
      have a Cloudera Enterprise license, you can also trigger the collection of diagnostic data and
      send it to Cloudera Support to aid in resolving a problem you may be having.

Configuring a Proxy ServerSteps to configure a proxy server.Managing Anonymous Usage Data CollectionCloudera Manager sends anonymous usage information using Google Analytics to Cloudera.     The information helps Cloudera improve Cloudera Manager. By default, anonymous usage data     collection is enabled. You can disable this     property.Diagnostic Data CollectionTo help with solving problems when using Cloudera Manager on your cluster, Cloudera     Manager collects diagnostic data on a regular schedule, and automatically sends it to Cloudera. Configuring the Frequency of Diagnostic Data CollectionBy default, Cloudera Manager collects diagnostic data on a weekly basis. You can     change the frequency to daily, weekly, monthly, or never. If you are a Cloudera Enterprise     customer and you set the schedule to never, you can still     collect and send data to Cloudera on demand. If you are a Cloudera Enterprise customer and you     set the schedule to never, data is not collected or sent to     Cloudera.Configuring collection of Cloudera Manager table dataYou can configure Cloudera Manager to include selected data from     the Cloudera Manager database in Diagnostic Bundles. Specifying the Diagnostic Data DirectoryYou can configure the directory where collected diagnostic data is     stored.Redaction of Sensitive Information from Diagnostic BundlesBy default, Cloudera Manager redacts known sensitive information from inclusion in     diagnostic bundles. Cloudera Manager uses a set of standard rules to redact passwords and     secrets. You can add additional redaction rules using regular expressions to specify data you     want to be redacted from the bundles. Disabling the Automatic Sending of Diagnostic Data from a Manually Triggered CollectionIf you do not want data automatically sent to Cloudera after manually triggering data     collection, you can disable this feature. The data you collect will be saved and can be     downloaded for sending to Cloudera Support at a later time.Manually Triggering Collection and Transfer of Diagnostic Data to ClouderaTo troubleshoot specific problems, or to re-send an automatic bundle that failed to     send, you can manually send diagnostic data to Cloudera.