Viewing Charts for Cluster, Service, Role, and Host InstancesCloudera Docs
Viewing Charts for Cluster, Service, Role, and Host Instances
For cluster, service, role, and host instances, you can see dashboards of charts of
    various metrics relevant to the entity you are viewing. While the metrics displayed are
    different for each entity, the basic functionality works in the same way.
The Home > Status tab for clusters and the Status tab for a service, role, or
      host display dashboards containing a limited set of charts.
The Status page Charts Library tab displays a dashboard containing a much larger
      set of charts, organized by categories such as process charts, host
      charts, CPU charts, and so on, depending on the entity (service, role, or
      host) that you are viewing.
A custom dashboard is displayed by default when you view the Status tab for an entity. You
      can switch between custom and default dashboards by using the edit button  to the upper right of the chart.
Displaying Information from Charts
There are various ways to display information from charts.

Click the  icon at the top
          right to see a menu for opening the chart in the Chart Builder or exporting its data.
Change the size of a chart on a dashboard by
          dragging the lower-right corner of the chart.
Hovering with the mouse over a stream on a chart (for example, a
          line on a line chart) opens a small pop-up window that displays
          information about that stream. Move the mouse horizontally to see the
          data values change in the small pop-up window, based on the time
          represented at the mouse's position along the chart's horizontal axis.
          Click any stream within the chart to display a larger pop-up window
          that includes additional information for the stream at the point in
          time where the mouse was clicked. At the bottom of the large pop-up
          window is a button for viewing the Cloudera Manager page for the
          entity (service, host, role, query, or application) associated with
          the chart, if applicable (View Service, View Host, and
          so on). Click the button View Entity Chart to display a chart
          for the stream on its own page. If the chart displays more than one
          stream, the new chart displays only the stream that was selected when
          the button was clicked.
The chart page includes an editable text field containing a default
          title based on the select statement that was used to create the chart.
          This title will be used if you save the chart as a dashboard. Type a
          new title for the chart into this field, if desired.



Related informationDashboardsCharting Time-Series DataDashboard TypesExporting Data from ChartsYou can export data from charts in either JSON or CSV format.Adding and Removing Charts from a DashboardYou can add a chart to a dashboard or remove a chart from a custom dashboard. When     you add a chart to a dashboard, you can add it to an existing dashboard or a new custom     dashboard, which creates a new dashboard at the same time.Creating Triggers from ChartsYou can create a trigger for most charts. Triggers allow you to define actions to be     taken when a specified condition is met. 