Viewing EventsCloudera Docs
Viewing Events


The Events page lets you display events and alerts that have
        occurred within a time range you select anywhere in your clusters. From
        the Events page you can filter for events for services or role
        instances, hosts, users, commands, and much more. You can also search
        against the content information returned by the event.

To view events, click the Diagnostics
          tab on the top navigation bar, then select
            Events.
Event entries are ordered (within the time range you've selected) with the most recent
            at the top. If the event generated an alert, that is indicated by a red alert icon
              () in
            the entry.
This page supports infinite scrolling: you can scroll to the end of
            the displayed results and the page will fetch more results and add
            them to the end of the list automatically.
To display event details, click 
Expand at the right side of the event entry.
Clicking the 
View link at the far right of the entry has different results
            depending on the category of the entry:

ACTIVITY_EVENT - Displays the activity Details
                page.

AUDIT_EVENT - If the event was a restart, displays the
                service's Commands page. If the event was
                a configuration change, the Revision Details dialog box
                displays.

HBASE - Displays a health report or log details.

HEALTH_CHECK - Displays the status page of the role instance.

LOG_MESSAGE - Displays the event's log entry. You can
                also click 
Expand to display details of the entry, then click the
                  URL link. When you perform one of these actions the
                time range in the Time Line is shifted to the time the event
                occurred.

SYSTEM - Displays the Parcels page.




Related informationAlertsViewing Activity Details in a Report FormatViewing Running and Recent CommandsViewing Role Instance StatusParent topic: Events