Creating a Flight Details dashboardCloudera Docs
Creating a Flight Details dashboard
In this exercise, you will create a dashboard to show information about airlines and
        flight cancellations. You can create this dashboard using the Data Discovery and
        Visualization application integrated into Cloudera Machine Learning.

In Data, select the SQL tab, then
                    select the airline data connection.

In Database, select
                        airline_ontime_parquet.

In Enter SQL below, enter this SQL statement: 
select * from airline_ontime_parquet.flights Enter the
                    table name by clicking flights in the Tables list. The
                    database name is automatically prepended in the SQL statement.

Click Run.
The SQL statement executes, and the results appear in the
                        Results tab.

Click New Dashboard.
The Visuals tab opens.

In the Visuals menu, select the
                        Table graphic type.

In the Dimensions menu, select
                        uniquecarrier and drag it to the
                        Dimensions shelf.

In the Measures menu, select Record
                        Count and drag it to the Measures
                    shelf.

In the Dimensions menu, select
                        cancelled and drag it to the
                        Measures shelf. 
It appears as sum(cancelled).

On this sum(cancelled) item, in the Field
                        Properties, click Alias, and rename the
                    item to Cancel Count.

Drag the cancelled item again from the
                        Dimensions menu to the
                        Measures shelf.

For the second item, click the right arrow next to the label, and select
                        Enter/Edit Expression.
The expression displays in an edit pane.

Change the expression to the following:

sum([cancelled])/count(1)*100 as "Cancel Percent"


Click Save.
Note that the name of the item is changed to "Cancel Percent".

Click on Record Count, then
                    Alias, and change the name to Flight
                        Count.

Click on uniquecarrier, then
                        Alias, and change it to
                        Carrier.

Click Refresh Visual.
The column names in the visual area are updated.

Click  and select
                        Clone.
The table is copied to a new area in the visual designer.

In the new table, click Configure
.

In the Visuals menu, select Bars
                    to create a bar chart. The table transforms into a bar chart.

Move items around on the shelves so that they are arranged as shown:

X Axis: Carrier
Y Axis: Cancel Percent
Tooltips: Cancel Count, Flight Count


Click Refresh Visual.
When you move the pointer onto a bar, tooltips showing data for that bar appear.

Click Cancel Percent, and in Field
                        Properties, click Order and
                        Top K.

Select Descending.

Click Refresh Visual.
The bars are reordered from largest to smallest.

In the Action menu on the graphic pane, select Edit Dataset
                        SQL. The SQL editor page opens.

Click on the Dataset name field, and rename it to
                        Flight Details. Click Apply,
                    then click Apply again in the modal window that
                    appears.


This completes the Flight Details dashboard.


Parent topic: Data Discovery and Exploration Steps