Access paths to CDP and its componentsCloudera DocsAccess paths to CDP and its components
To access the various CDP components, you must understand the access paths unique to the entry points that are specific to users and situations.The typical access entry methods and their details are as follows:

SSO access through Management Console - After the initial identity provider
    configuration, users can access CDP and its SSO-interfaces through the Management Console. You
    can access various CDP services including Management Console, Machine Learning Workspaces, Data
    Catalog, Replication Manager, Data Hub, and Data Lakes.
Accessing non-SSO interfaces using workload password - You must set your workload
    password to add the user credentials to the IPA server. Using the workload username and workload
    password, you can access non-SSO interfaces such as SSH to clusters, JDBC connections, REST
    APIs, Data Warehouses, and so on. noteTo access Machine Learning workspaces, you can enter the
     kerberos principal and the workload password, and gain kerberized access to components such as
     the HMS.
Accessing CDP CLI using access keys - On the User Management section of the Management
    Console, you can generate your access keys. Use these access keys for CDP CLI and for running
    jobs.
Machine user access - To get programmatic access to CDP and its services, you can
    create and use a machine user. The process to set up the machine user for access is as follows: 
Create a machine user in the User Management section of Management Console.
Get access keys in the Management Console for this machine user.
Use APIs and CDP CLI to set the workload password for the machine user.

SSH access - There are two types of SSH access:
Admin users who create Environments can access the environments directly using the SSH key
      access.
All users can access workload clusters by using their SSH keys previously uploaded in CDP.
     




Related informationSetting the workload passwordAccessing non-SSO interfaces using workload user and passwordManaging SSH keysGenerating an API access key