Configuring Azure Active Directory identity federation in CDPCloudera Docs
Configuring Azure Active Directory identity federation in CDP
You can onboard users by configuring Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) identity
  federation with CDP.
Before you begin

CDP requires the Azure AD sAMAccountName attribute for the SAML group claim
        mapping. As per Configure group claims for applications by using Azure
          Active Directory, sAMAccountName is not available with SAML on groups
        created in Azure AD; It is available only on groups created with on-premises AD and synced
        to Azure AD. If you only use Azure AD without on premises AD you can use SCIM to sync group
        memberships to CDP. See Configure SCIM with Azure AD.
In order to be compatible with CDP, your Azure AD should be configured to synchronize with
        on-premises Active Directory via Azure AD Connect sync tool. As per Azure documentation, you must use Azure AD Connect
        1.2.70.0 or newer. 

Required role: PowerUser
Steps


Log in to CDP web interface and navigate to Management Console > User
            Management, select the Identity Providers tab and click on Create Identity
            Provider to create an identity provider.





Name your identity provider in CDP, for example MyCompany_AAD.


Click Create.


Click on MyCompany_AAD on CDP console and copy the CDP SAML Service Provider
     Metadata to an XML file (for example, saml-metadata.xml). You will need it later.


Open another web browser window, navigate to
      https://portal.azure.com/, and log in to your Azure Portal.


On your Azure Portal, navigate to the Azure Active Directory.


Select the Enterprise applications service.


Click on the +New application button.


Select the Non-gallery application.





Give the application a name, for example. CDP_id_federation.


Click on the +Add button.


Once the application is added, go to 2. Set up single sign on .


Upload the metadata XML file that you saved in the earlier step.





Download the Federation Metadata xml for your Azure AD application
     and save it on your computer. 





Switch back to CDP web interface and upload the metadata saved from AD and update the
     identity provider. 
Find the identity provider that you just created in CDP.
Click the Actions button and select Update Identity Provider.
On the Identity Provider window, upload the metadata XML file that you saved
              previously or copy and paste the content of that XML file:


Verify the updates and click Update.



Switch back to Azure AD Azure Portal browser window. 


Edit 1.Basic SAML Configuration:
Make sure that the value for Identifier (Entity ID) is populated, for example
       “urn:cloudera:cdp:<Identity-Provider-Id>” or “urn:cloudera:altus” for legacy identity
       provider. Check the Service Provider Metadata to determine which identifier to use.
From CDP SAML Service Provider Metadata you saved earlier, copy the
        AssertionConsumerService > Location value and paste it into the line Reply URL
        (Assertion Consumer Service URL).




Edit 2.User Attributes & Claims:
If the customer is using on-prem Active Directory and Active Directory Connect to sync with
      Azure AD, you will be able to import Azure AD groups into CDP. Click +Add a group
      claim.
On the Group Claims blade, do the following:
Select Security groups or Groups assigned to the application.
Select Source Attribute sAMAccountName.
Check the Customize the name of the group claim. Optionally configure Group
                  filtering for fine control of the list of groups that are included as part of
                the group claim. When a filter is configured, only groups that match the filter will
                be included in the group's claim that is sent to CDP. For more information, see
                  Azure AD group filtering.
Enter “groups” in Name (Required).
Namespace enter https://cdp.cloudera.com/SAML/Attributes.


Click Save.

For the rest of the claims, follow the instructions at Configuring your enterprise IdP to work with
            CDP. If your NameID is an opaque ID (such as a UUID), you can Generate workload usernames based on
              email.





Name
Namespace
Source
Source Attribute


Unique User Identifier (Name ID)

Attribute
user.objectid


firstName
https://cdp.cloudera.com/SAML/Attributes
Attribute
user.givenname


lastName
https://cdp.cloudera.com/SAML/Attributes
Attribute
user.surname


mail

Attribute
user.mail



Click on the SAML-based Sign-On on the top.

Test this application.

Once these steps are completed, a CDP user will be able to log in with their integrated
        Azure AD identity through their Office 365 applications page (Office.com). A new tile will
        appear for the CDP application created above:

Once a user signs in, the User and Groups will show up on the CDP Management
          Console’s User Management screen. Navigate to your office 365 applications page, click on
          the new tile that was created for CDP, and verify that you are able to log in. 
Once a user signs in, the User and Groups will show up on the CDP Management
        Console’s User Management screen.

What to do next: 
Assign users to groups within your Azure AD that you will map to roles in CDP. 
Assign CDP roles to either the new users or the groups as appropriate.


Related informationConfigure group claims for applications with Azure Active
                            DirectoryConfigure SCIM with Azure ADParent topic: Onboarding users