Configuring identity providers in CDPCloudera Docs
Configuring identity providers in CDP
An account administrator or PowerUser can onboard users by setting up identity
  federation with CDP. 
If your organization uses an enterprise identity provider (IdP) that is compliant with Security
   Assertion Markup Language (SAML), you can set up identity federation with CDP. Identity
   federation allows users within your organization to log in to CDP through the authentication
   system in your organization without registering with Cloudera or creating a Cloudera account.
The following diagram illustrates how identity federation works with CDP:




note
As shown in the diagram, there is no network communication required between CDP and customer
     IdP, so there is no need to create firewall rules.


CDP supports the following:

CDP supports the SAML 2.0 standard. You can set up any identity provider for CDP that uses
    SAML 2.0. 
You can set up a maximum of 10 SAML 2.0-compliant identity providers in CDP.

Setting up an identity provider for CDP involves the following steps:

The IdP administrator in your organization generates the SAML metadata that describes your
    enterprise IdP. 
The CDP administrator sets up the identity provider in CDP. 
The IdP administrator configures the enterprise IdP in your organization to work with CDP as
    a service provider. 


Generating the identity provider metadataUse your enterprise IdP user interface to generate the identity provider SAML metadata file.Setting up the identity provider in CDPIn CDP, you must create an identity provider to capture the SAML metadata and connection information for your enterprise IdP. To create an identity provider in CDP, you must be a CDP account administrator or have the PowerUser role.Configuring your enterprise IdP to work with CDP as a service providerCDP provides a service provider SAML metadata file that describes the information that CDP requires to enable users to log in to CDP through your enterprise IdP.Synchronizing group membershipCDP can synchronize the user's group membership provided by your enterprise IdP with the user's group membership in CDP.Updating an identity providerYou can update the group synchronization option and the provider metadata in a CDP identity provider.      To update an identity provider in CDP, you must be a CDP account administrator or have the PowerUser role.Disabling the Cloudera SSO loginAfter you complete the identity federation setup between Cloudera and your enterprise IdP, you can disable the Cloudera SSO login option if you do not want to allow users in your organization to log in to CDP through the Cloudera registration and login page.Parent topic: Onboarding users