Configure SCIM with Azure ADCloudera Docs
Configure SCIM with Azure AD
CDP
  supports SCIM with Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD).
SCIM is a common way to get around:
The Azure AD SAML 150 groups-per-claim limit.
The Azure AD SAML sAMAccountName not available on groups created in Azure
     AD limitation (this is where group names are sent as their Object IDs in SAML instead of their
     human readable name).
For more information on these limitations, see Configure group claims for applications by using Azure Active
    Directory.
Refer to this documentation if you would like to configure CDP to use SCIM. Prior to
   configuring CDP to use SCIM, you should be aware of the following limitations:
You can only configure one identity provider per CDP account to use SCIM.
Once you start using SCIM, you should not update users and groups in CDP, as they will get
     out of sync with Azure AD, and you may notice unexpected changes if/when Azure AD realizes the
     differences and attempts to re-sync the users/groups.
Updating group names is not supported in CDP.
Updating userName is not supported in CDP. You must use an Azure AD field
     that will not change as a userName to map via SCIM to CDP. If that field is an
     opaque ID (for example, a UUID) then you should generate workload usernames from email as
     described below.

Once you are aware of the limitations, you can proceed to configuring CDP to use SCIM. The
   steps include:

Prerequisites
Enable SCIM for your identity provider in CDP
Set up SCIM in Azure AD

Prerequisites
Prior to configuring CDP to use SCIM, ensure that you can meet the following requirements: 

Prior to configuring CDP to use SCIM, you should Configure Azure AD in CDP. SCIM is meant to be
          used in conjunction with SAML identity federation to synchronize users and groups from
          your identity provider to CDP.
Setting up SCIM requires administrative operations in both CDP and Azure AD, and
     so it requires an Azure AD admin to perform the Azure AD steps. 
Additionally, you need to be a CDP account administrator or have the
      PowerUser role in CDP.


Enable SCIM for your identity provider in CDP
This task involves enabling SCIM for your identity provider and getting the SCIM URL
    that you will need to configure Azure AD so it can connect to CDP. Next, you create an access
    token for Azure AD to securely communicate with CDP for SCIM and get the access token secret you
    will need to configure Azure AD.
You will need to provide the lifetime for the access token used for Azure AD to
    communicate to CDP. Typical values are 1 year or 3 years; consult your security policies. You
    will need to rotate the access token before it expires.
In order to perform these steps, you need to be a CDP account administrator or have the
     PowerUser role in CDP.
Steps



Sign in to the CDP console.


Navigate to the Management Console.

Select User Management from the left pane.

Click on Identity Providers.


Select your identity provider, and from the (context menu) select Update
        Identity Provider.


On the Update Identity Provider window, check the box for Enable
        SCIM. This will update the identity provider to be ready to accept SCIM API calls.


(Optional) If you use an opaque ID for SAML NameID and SCIM
        userName, on the Update Identity Provider window, check the box for
        Generate workload username by email. Check this box if you use an opaque ID for SAML
        NameID and SCIM userName. For more information, see Generating workload usernames based on email.


Click Update.


Select your identity provider, and from the (context menu) select
        View Identity Provider.


Copy the SCIM URL. You will need it later.


Click Close.


Select your identity provider and from the (context menu) select
        Update SCIM Access Tokens.


On the Update SCIM Access Tokens window, click the button to Create
        SCIM Token.


Set your lifetime, in days. This is how long you will have before you need to
       rotate your SCIM access token. Note that you can always rotate your tokens earlier than their
       expiration date and you can revoke tokens at any time.


Click the Create button. This creates a SCIM access token that is used to
       authenticate SCIM API calls to this identity provider.


Your Access Token Secret will be shown. Copy it somewhere. You will need
       it later and it will not be shown again.




Set up SCIM in Azure AD
After enabling SCIM for your identity provider in CDP, you should set up SCIM in Azure AD.
    These steps must be performed by an Azure AD admin. 
Steps


Sign in to the Azure Portal.


Navigate to Azure AD and then click on Enterprise Applications.


Select the application you used to configure identity federation to CDP. Or, if
      you are setting up SCIM in a new Azure AD app, create a new non-gallery enterprise
      application.


Under the Manage menu on the left, click Provisioning.


From the Provisioning Mode dropdown, select Automatic.


Expand the Admin Credentials section.


In the box for Tenant URL, paste in the SCIM URL that you saved
      earlier.


In the box for Secret Token, paste in the Access Token Secret that
      you saved earlier.


Click Test Connection and wait for success.


Click Save.


Still in the same Provisioning blade, expand the Mappings section.
      This section is grayed out until the connection has been successfully tested.


Click on Provision Azure Active Directory Groups.

Update the Attribute Mappings as follows:


Azure Active Directory Attribute
customappsso Attribute
Matching precedence


displayName
displayName
1


members
members



As an outcome, your configuration should look similar to:

noteUpdating group names is not supported in CDP.

Click Save to save the group attribute mappings.


Close this blade to return to the Provisioning blade.


Click on Provision Azure Active Directory Users.

Update the Attribute Mappings as follows:


Azure Active Directory Attribute
customappsso Attribute
Matching precedence


objectId
userName
1


mail
emails[type eq "work"].value



givenName
name.givenName



surname
name.familyName



As an outcome, your configuration should look similar to:


noteThe "customappsso Attribute" userName must be the same as your SAML
        NameID attribute. The value of the field mapped to
        NameID/userName is used to uniquely identify a user in CDP
       and must also be immutable, or you will run into known issues. See Known issues and troubleshooting related to IdP setup in
        CDP.


Click Save to save the user attribute mappings.


Close this blade to return to the Provisioning blade.


Click Save in the Provisioning blade.


Still in the Provisioning blade, expand the Settings section.


Set Scope to Sync only assigned users and groups.


Click Save.


Now in the blade for the application, under the Manage menu click Users
       and groups.


If there are no users or groups, add a few. You will use this to test SCIM
      later.


Back in the blade for the application, under the Manage menu click
       Provisioning.


Click Start provisioning.


Wait for the sync cycle to run. 
The initial provisioning cycle may take a few minutes to start but subsequent
      provisioning cycles run using a fixed cadence. You can see the cadence under the View
       provisioning details expandable section.noteProvisioning cycles are set by Azure AD and
       are not customizable.


Once the provisioning cycle is complete, check your users and groups in CDP. If
      there are any errors, contact your Cloudera representative.


note

CDP does not treat PATCH requests as atomic. PATCH operations are idempotent on CDP. 
Querying resources using HTTP POST is not supported.




Related informationConfiguring Azure Active Directory identity federation in CDPKnown issues and troubleshooting related to IdP setup in CDPParent topic: Onboarding users