Generating workload usernames based on emailCloudera Docs
Generating workload usernames based on email
CDP offers an option to generate workload usernames for CDP users based on
  user email addresses. 
By default, workload usernames are generated using the identity provider user ID. For
   SAML logins that is the SAML NameID, for SCIM that is the SCIM
    userName, and when using the CDP APIs that is the
    identity-provider-user-id. Sometimes the identity provider user ID is an opaque
   ID, like a uuid or employee ID, which gives equally opaque workload usernames. 
Alternatively, you can generate workload usernames based on users' email addresses
   instead of using the default workload usernames. For example, if your
    identity-provider-user-id is 8d16a2ea, and your email is bob@example.com, by
   default your workload username will be "8d16a2ea". If you choose to generate workload usernames
   by email, your workload username will instead be "bob".
noteOnce your CDP users are created and have the default or email-based workload usernames
   assigned, you cannot change the workload usernames already generated before the setting was
   changed. At that point, changing this setting does not change or regenerate any existing workload
   usernames. Specifically, for SAML logins users are created in CDP when they log in for the first
   time, and for SCIM users are created when the identity provider runs a SCIM sync cycle.
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI
When creating or updating an identity provider in CDP, you can check the Generate workload
      username by email box to have workload usernames generated based on email addresses.

From the CDP CLI, you can change how workload usernames are generated when you create
      (iam create-saml-provider) or update (iam
      update-saml-provider) a SAML provider by using the
      --generate-workload-username-by-email or
      --no-generate-workload-username-by-email flags.
     See:iam create-saml-provider --help
iam update-saml-provider --help


Related informationSetting up the identity provider in CDPUpdating an identity providerParent topic: Onboarding users