Known issues and troubleshooting related to IdP setup in CDPCloudera Docs
Known issues and troubleshooting related to IdP setup in CDP
This topic covers known issues that you may encounter when setting up an identity
  provider in CDP and steps to troubleshoot them.
Known issues with mutable SAML NameID or SCIM userName
Issue (If using SAML without SCIM):
If you use SAML without SCIM, and you set the SAML NameID field to a mutable
    Azure AD field (such as an email), then you will end up with duplicate users in CDP when the
    Azure AD value changes. The duplicate user is a new, different user that has a different CDP
    workload username. This is because SAML has no way to differentiate between two different users
    and a user whose SAML NameID has changed.
Issue (If using SAML with SCIM):
If you are using both SAML and SCIM, you must set the SAML NameID and the
    SCIM userName fields to the same Azure AD field. If that Azure AD field is a
    mutable field, when it changes you will end up with duplicate users in CDP. This will cause
    errors in your Azure AD Enterprise Application and SCIM updates to the user will fail.
Workaround: 
There is no automatic way to recover and you will likely have to delete and recreate the
    affected user. This includes having to delete and recreate the user's permissions, passwords,
    keys, and so on. If this happens, contact Cloudera support.

Known issues with Azure AD User Principal Name (UPN)
While uncommon in practice, the Azure AD UPN is actually a mutable field. Ask your
    Azure AD team if your organization mutates UPN before using it.
By default, when users are deleted in Azure AD they are moved to a "recently
    deleted" list for 30 days, before they are permanently deleted and removed from Azure AD. When a
    user is moved to the "recently deleted'' list, their UPN is automatically changed by Azure AD.
    This will cause SCIM errors to show up in your Azure AD Enterprise Application: The error is
    Azure AD trying to update the userName field, and CDP returning an error saying that operation
    is not supported. These errors can be ignored. 
Note that even though users in Azure AD are in the "recently deleted" list, they
    will persist in CDP as active users until after the 30 day wait time when they are fully removed
    from Azure AD (deleted from the Azure AD system). At that point SCIM will delete them from CDP
    as well. If you permanently delete the user from Azure AD before the 30 day period (that is,
    delete the user from the "recently deleted" list), then that user will also be deleted in CDP.
    If neither of these options work for you, then you must delete the user manually in CDP.

Known issues with updating group names
Updating group names is rare - most organizations do not do this. CDP does not
    support updating group names. To fix the issue, create a new group instead.


Parent topic: Onboarding users