Setting the workload passwordCloudera DocsSetting the workload password
To access non-SSO interfaces, each user and machine user must set a workload
        password. An administrator can set other users' workload passwords.
Required roles: All users can manage their workload passwords from the account
            management page. All users can manage their workload password from CDP CLI, but this
            action requires an API access key, which can only be generated by users with the
                IAMUser role. As a CDP administrator or PowerUser, you can manage the
            workload password for all user accounts.
Workload password requirements
Your CDP administrator may set a custom workload password policy for your
                organization. If your CDP administrator did not set a custom workload password
                policy default, CDP has the following workload password requirements: 


A minimum password length of 8 characters


Must include at least 1 upper case character, lowercase character,
                        number and special character. Supported special characters are: "#",
                        "&", "*", "$", "%", "@", "^", ".", "_", and "!".


All previous passwords can be reused


The password can be changed at any time 


The password never expires



Set your own workload password
As a CDP user, you can see on your profile page if you have previously set your
                workload password and if the password is about to expire. There are two cases when
                you may want to set your FreeIPA password: 
When you first start using CDP.
When your password expires. This may or may not happen depending on your
                        company's policies. If your password does expire, you will see a banner
                        notification on the CDP web interface 10 days before the expiry date. You
                        can also see on your user’s profile page the state of your workload password
                        (if it expires soon or cannot yet be changed). 

Steps
CDP UICDP CLI

Sign in to the CDP web interface.
Click on your user name in the bottom left corner and then select
                                Profile. 
Click Set Workload Password:
                                



In the dialog box that appears, enter the new workload password
                            twice.
In the Environments text box, All is pre-selected so that the
                            workload password is synced to all environments by default. 
Click Set Workload Password. A message appears
                            saying that the password is set successfully.
Click Close.


Use the following command to set workload password:

cdp iam set-workload-password --password <value>



Set workload password for another user or machine user (admin only)
There are two cases when you may want to set FreeIPA password for a machine user: 
When you are first onboarding the machine user to CDP.
When the machine user's password expires. This may or may not happen
                        depending on your company's policies. A CDP administrator or
                            PowerUser is able to navigate to the list of all users to see for
                        which machine user passwords are about to expire. In the "Password expiring"
                        column, any password that is about to expire in 10 days or less is flagged
                        as "Expires in X days". Only machine users (and not human users) are flagged
                        in this manner. A CDP administrator or PowerUser can then reset the
                        password for each machine user whose password is about to expire.

Steps
CDP UICDP CLI

Sign in to the CDP web interface.
From the CDP home page, click Management
                            Console.
On the side navigation panel, click User
                                Management.
On the Users page, enter your name in the search bar and then
                            click on your user name:
                                



Click Set Workload Password:
                                



In the dialog box that appears, enter the new workload password
                            twice.
Click Set Workload Password. A message appears
                            saying that the password is set successfully.
Click Close.


Use the following command to set workload password for other users:

cdp iam set-workload-password  --actor-crn <value> --password <value>

The CRN can be obtained from CDP web interface from the user profile. 

What to do next
Each time you reset your workload password, you must regenerate your keytab. See
                    Retrieve keytab. 


Related informationAccessing non-SSO interfaces using workload user and password