Performing user syncCloudera Docs
Performing user sync
When making any kind of user or group-related changes, you need to perform user sync in
    order for the changes to be synced to FreeIPA. 
All user and group related changes with one exception of generating API access keys require
      user sync. For example all of the following require user sync:

Creating machine users
Deleting users and machine users
Assigning CDP roles or environment-level resource roles to users
Creating a group, assigning group membership, and deleting a group 
Setting workload password
Managing user SSH keys 

During user sync:
All control plane actors (users and machine users) with the
          environments/accessEnvironment right are synced to the FreeIPA. 
All groups are synced to the FreeIPA.
All users with PowerUser role are synchronized to all environments.

Syncing users to all environments
Required role: PowerUser
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI

From the CDP web interface, you can perform user sync from the Management Console >
            User Management.
Click Actions > Synchronize Users.
Click Synchronize Users.
Status shown will be Running, then Completed.


From the CDP CLI, you can use the following
        commands:cdp environments sync-all-users
This command synchronizes all users and groups with all CDP environments.
cdp environments sync-userThis commands only syncs the current user
        with all their CDP environments. You can use it if you are making changes to your own user,
        but you can't use it for syncing other users. 

What to do next
Depending on how many users you have in CDP, it may take a few minutes for the user sync to
        complete. The sync operation times out after 30 minutes. 

Syncing users to a selected environment
Required role: EnvironmentAdmin and DataSteward can perform user sync
        for a single environment. PowerUser can perform user sync for all environments. 
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI

From the CDP web interface, you can perform user sync from the Management Console >
            Environments.
Navigate to a specific environment.
Do one of the following: 
Click on Actions > Synchronize Users to FreeIPA
Navigate to Summary > FreeIPA > Actions > Synchronize Users to FreeIPA
Click on Actions > Manage Access and then click the Synchronize Users
              button in the top right corner. 

Click Synchronize Users.
Status shown will be Running, then Completed.


From the CDP CLI, you can use the following command:
        cdp environments sync-all-users --environment-names <value>
This command synchronizes all users and groups with one or more CDP environments specified
        in --environment-names <value>.

What to do next
Depending on how many users you have in CDP, it may take a few minutes for the user sync to
        complete. The sync operation times out after 30 minutes. 


