Setting up the identity provider in CDPCloudera Docs
Setting up the identity provider in CDP
In CDP, you must create an identity provider to capture the SAML metadata and connection information for your enterprise IdP. To create an identity provider in CDP, you must be a CDP account administrator or have the PowerUser role.
note
Creating and integrating with identity providers should be considered a privileged action
          and you must think about how it will affect group memberships within CDP. Each identity
          provider manages their own unique set of group names and memberships. However, different
          identity providers can define the same group names. When users from different identity
          providers federate to CDP (with group sync on) the identity providers may provide the same
          group names. Since groups in CDP are defined by their name - as provided by the identity
          provider - when this happens, users will be added to the same group in CDP, even though
          they federated from different identity providers. This may grant unexpected permissions.
          If your organization needs group names to be unique across all identity providers
          federating to CDP, our recommended approach is to create different CDP accounts for each
          identity provider, and only set up one identity provider to federate to a CDP account.
note
There are certain group names that are reserved and therefore cannot be synchronized to
          CDP. See Reserved group names.
Required role: Account administrator or PowerUser

Sign in to the CDP console.
From the CDP home page, click Management Console.In the User Management section of the side navigation panel, click Identity Providers.Click Create Identity Provider.On the Create Identity Provider window, enter the name you want to use for the CDP identity provider.Select whether to synchronize the user group membership in CDP with the user group membership in your enterprise IdP.To synchronize the groups, select the Sync Groups on Login option.
For more information about user group synchronization, see Synchronizing group membership.
In Provider Metadata, select File Upload to upload a file that contains
          the identity provider SAML metadata or select Direct Input to paste the identity
          provider SAML metadata directly.
Click Create.


CDP adds the new identity provider to the list of CDP identity providers on the Identity Providers page.
 After you create the identity provider in CDP, you can view its properties to get the
        information you need to configure your enterprise IdP to work with CDP.
On the Identity Providers page, click the name of the new CDP identity provider to see its properties:


Property
Description


Name
Name of the CDP identity provider.


ID
ID generated for the CDP identity provider.


Sync Groups on Login
Indicates whether CDP synchronizes a user's group membership in CDP with the
                user's group membership in your enterprise IdP when a user logs in.For more
                  information about user group synchronization, see Group Membership
                  Synchronization.


CRN
The Cloudera resource name assigned to the CDP identity provider.


SAML Identity Provider Metadata
The identity provider SAML metadata for your enterprise IdP that you provided
                when you created the CDP identity provider.


Generate workload username by email
You can optionally check this if you use an opaque ID for SAML
                  NameID and SCIM userName so that the workload
                username is generated based on the email instead of the default. For more
                information, see Generating workload usernames based on
                email.


Enable SCIM
You can optionally check this to enable SCIM for Azure AD. For more
                information, see Configure SCIM with Azure AD.


CDP SAML Service Provider Metadata
The CDP SAML service provider metadata to configure your enterprise
                IdP.




Parent topic: Configuring identity providers in CDP