Understanding account roles and resource rolesCloudera Docs
Understanding account roles and resource roles
To access resources and perform tasks in CDP, each user requires permissions. As a CDP
    administrator, you can assign a role to a user or a machine user to give the user permission to
    perform the tasks either on the whole account or on a specific resource.

Each role has an attached policy that defines the permissions associated with the
        role. The policy attached to a role determines the operations that the role allows the user
        to perform. When users attempt to perform operations that are not permitted in their
        assigned role, they get a permission denied error message.
CDP has predefined roles for your use. You can assign a role or a combination of
        roles to give the user the appropriate permissions to complete tasks in CDP. You cannot
        modify the predefined CDP roles or the policies associated with the predefined roles.
The scope of predefined roles and resource roles can vary. For example, a role
        might grant view access only to Data Hub clusters but not to environments in which these
        clusters are running. You might need to assign multiple roles to ensure that a user can
        perform all required tasks in CDP.
CDP provides the following types of roles:

Account roles - An account role grants a user, machine user, or group
          permissions to access or perform tasks on all resources within the CDP tenant. 
Resource roles - A resource role grants a user, machine user, or group
          permissions to access or perform tasks on a specific resource (such as a specific
          environment or a specific Data Hub cluster).
Group membership administration roles - The IamGroupAdmin role
          can be assigned to a user to manage group membership for a specific group.


Review the following documentation to learn more about these role types:

Account rolesA CDP role grants permissions to perform tasks in CDP that are not associated with a   specific resource. You explicitly assign a role to a user, machine user, or a group.Resource rolesA role that is associated with a specific resource is called a resource role. This type   of role gives permission to perform tasks on a specific resource, such as a specific CDP   environment, shared resource, or Data Hub cluster.Group membership administration rolesThe IamGroupAdmin role can be assigned to a user or a group on the scope of a   group to allow them to manage membership of that group.Example role assignment scenarioThis section outlines an example role assignment scenario.