In-place data upgrade from CDH 6 to Operational Database powered by Apache AccumuloCloudera Docs
In-place data upgrade from CDH 6 to Operational Database powered by Apache
        Accumulo
As CDH 6 is shipped with Accumulo 1.9.2 which uses a data version compatible with
        Operational Datbase powered by Apache Accumulo (OpDB), in-place data upgrade is supported
        from CDH 6 to OpDB. 

Only an in-place data upgrade is supported from CDH 6 to OpDB, which is not an
                in-place upgrade. That means that the configuration changes are getting lost during
                the upgrade. If you do not want to lose your custom settings, use the migration
                steps instead of the in-place data upgrade. For more information about how to
                migrate to OpDB, see Migrating Operational Database powered by Apache
                    Accumulo.


Migrate Accumulo configuration.
As OpDB is handled as a different service from Accumulo, you have to migrate
                    the configuration of Accumulo manually. For more information, see
                        Migrating Operational Database powered by Apache
                        Accumulo.noteEnsure that you note on which nodes each role is
                        running.

Remove the Accumulo service. 
There is no automatic service upgrade for Accumulo, so during the in-place
                    cluster upgrade process it is removed if it still presents on the cluster at the
                    time of the upgrade. Cloudera recommends removing the Accumulo service manually
                    before starting the cluster upgrade.


In Cloudera Manager, stop the Accumulo service.


Delete the Accumulo service.
The deleting process affects only configurations, it does not affect
                            data files or Zookeeper nodes.



Upgrade the cluster. For more information, see Upgrading CDH 6 to CDP
                        Private Cloud Base.

Install the new OpDB service.
For more information, see Install Operational Database powered by Apache
                        Accumulo.When performing the installation, ensure that the
                        following requirements are fulfilled:
Assign each role to the same node it was running on before the
                                upgrade.
Use the same configurations the previous Accumulo service was
                                using.
Clear Initialize Accumulo.
Clear Enable Kerberos Authentication. The
                                main purpose of this function is to make a kerberized setup easier
                                for a new service install. The changes it entails could clash with
                                the previous Accumulo service configuration.


Re-apply the previous Accumulo configurations.

noteMajor changes were introduced regarding how Accumulo handles
                        configurations. Fore more information, see Upgrading
                        Accumulo.



Parent topic: Migrating Accumulo to CDP