Preparing for data migrationCloudera Docs
Preparing for data migration
 Before you start the data migration from CDH 5.x or HDP 2.x to CDP, you must
        understand the requirements and complete certain tasks on CDH/HDP and CDP to ensure a
        successful migration.

If you are migrating from CDH, configure Ranger ACLs in CDP corresponding to
                    the HBase ACLs in your existing CDH cluster.

If you are migrating from HDP perform the following steps:


Configure Ranger ACLs in CDP corresponding to the HBase or Ranger ACLs
                            in your existing HDP cluster. 
For more information, see Configure a resource-based service:
                                HBase.


Migrate your applications to use the new HBase-Spark connector because
                            the Spark-HBase connector that you were using in CDH or HDP is no longer
                            supported in CDP. 
For more information, see Using the HBase-Spark
                                connector.



Review the deprecated APIs and incompatibilities for HBase, if any, when migrating from
                    HDP 2.x or CDH 5.x to CDP. 
For more information, see Deprecation Notices
                    for Apache HBase.

Ensure that all data has been migrated to a supported encoding type before the
                    migration. 
For more information, see Remove PREFIX_TREE Data Block
                    Encoding.

Ensure that you upgrade any external co-processors manually because they are
                    not automatically upgraded during migration. You need to ensure that your
                    co-processors classes are compatible with CDP. 
For more information, see Check co-processor classes. 


Removing PREFIX_TREE Data Block EncodingBefore migrating to CDP Private Cloud Base, ensure that you         have transitioned all the data to a supported encoding type.Checking co-processor classesExternal co-processors are not automatically upgraded, you must upgrade them         manually. Before migrating, ensure that your co-processors are compatible with         themigration.Parent topic: Migrating HBase