Shell commandsCloudera Docs
Shell commands
The following table shows actions you can take from the shell.




Action




Shell command




Comments






Take a snapshot of tableX called snapshotX




snapshot 'tableX', 'snapshotX'



Snapshots can be taken while a table is disabled, or while a table is online and
                    serving traffic.

If a table is disabled (using disable
                        <table>), an offline snapshot is taken.
                      This snapshot is managed by the master and fully
                      consistent with the state when the table was disabled.
                      This is the simplest and safest method, but it involves a
                      service interruption because the table must be disabled to
                      take the snapshot.
In an online snapshot, the table remains available while
                      the snapshot is taken, and incurs minimal performance
                      degradation of normal read/write loads. This snapshot is
                      managed by the master and run on the RegionServers. The
                      current implementation—simple-flush snapshots—provides no
                      causal consistency guarantees. Despite this shortcoming,
                      it offers the same degree of consistency as
                        CopyTable and  is a significant
                      improvement.





Restore snapshot snapshotX (replaces the source table
                    content)



restore_snapshot ‘snapshotX’



Restoring a snapshot replaces the current version of a table with the data
                        in that table when the snapshot was taken. To run this command, you must
                        disable the target table. The restore_snapshot command
                        takes the name of a snapshot e (appending a timestamp code), and then clones
                        data into the original data and removes data not in the snapshot. If the
                        operation succeeds, the target table is enabled.




List all available snapshots



list_snapshots



 




List all available snapshots starting with ‘mysnapshot_’
                    (regular expression)



list_snapshots ‘my_snapshot_.*’



 




Remove a snapshot called snapshotX




delete_snapshot ‘snapshotX’






Create a new table tableY from a snapshot
                    snapshotX




clone_snapshot ‘snapshotX’, ‘tableY’



Cloning a snapshot creates a new table that serves the
                        data kept at the time of the snapshot. The original table and the cloned
                        table can be modified independently; new data written to one table does not
                        show up on the other.




Parent topic: Manage HBase snapshots using the HBase shell