About HBase snapshotsCloudera Docs
About HBase snapshots
HBase snapshots allow you to clone a table without making data copies, and with
      minimal impact on RegionServers. Exporting the table to another cluster has little impact on
      the RegionServers.
Without
         using snapshots, the only way to backup or clone a table was to use the provided
            CopyTable or ExportTable tools. However, these methods
         have disadvantages:


CopyTable and ExportTable can degrade RegionServer
            performance because they read the table data.
Disabling the table means no reads or writes; this is usually unacceptable.

Use Cases

Data migration
You can use HBase snapshots to migrate data from CDH 5.x or HDP 2.x to COD on
                     CDP Public Cloud. Refer to the migration guide for more information.

Recovery from user or application errors
Useful because it may be some time before the database
                     administrator notices the error.note
An administrator can create automation which takes new
                           snapshots and deletes unneeded old snapshots.


The database administrator may want to save a snapshot
                     before a major application upgrade or change.note
Snapshots are not primarily used for system upgrade
                           protection because they do not roll back binaries, and would not
                           necessarily prevent bugs or errors in the system or the upgrade.



Recovery cases:
Roll back to the previous snapshot and merge in
                           reverted data.
View previous snapshots and choose which snapshot to
                           apply into production.



Backup
Capture a copy of the database and store it outside HBase
                  for disaster recovery.
Capture previous versions of data for compliance,
                  regulation, and archiving.
Export from a snapshot on a live system provides a faster and simpler way of
                     moving HBase data than the CopyTable and
                        ExportTable.


Audit or report view of data at a specific time
Capture monthly data for compliance.
Use for end-of-day/month/quarter reports.


Application testing
Test schema or application changes on similar production
                  data from a snapshot and then discard.For example: 
Take a snapshot.
Create a new table from the snapshot content (schema
                        and data)
Manipulate the new table by changing the schema,
                        adding and removing rows, and so on. The original table,
                        the snapshot, and the new table remain independent of
                        each other.





Offload work
Capture, copy, and restore data to another site
Export data to another cluster




Zero-Copy Restore and Clone Table
From a snapshot, you can create a new table
               (clone_snapshot) or restore the original table
               (restore_snapshot). When cloning snapshots, a new table is created
            to reflect the state of the original table when the snapshot was taken. Restoring
            snapshots, however, reverts the original table state to that of when the snapshot was
            taken (any updates to the table after the snapshot was taken would be lost). These two
            operations do not involve data copies; instead, a link is created to point to the
            original hfiles.
Changes to a cloned or restored table do not affect the snapshot.
To clone a table to another cluster, you export the snapshot to the
            other cluster and then run the clone
            operation; see Exporting a
               snapshot to another cluster.

Storage Considerations
Because hfiles are immutable, a snapshot consists
            of a reference to the files in the table at the moment the snapshot
            is taken. No copies of the data are made during the snapshot
            operation, but copies may be made when a compaction or deletion is
            triggered. In this case, if a snapshot has a reference to the files
            to be removed, the files are moved to an archive folder, instead of
            being deleted. This allows the snapshot to be restored in full.
When a snapshot is deleted, all retained HFiles will be automatically
            deleted when the files are no longer needed.


Parent topic: Configuring HBase snapshots