Finding issuesCloudera Docs
Finding issues
The HBCK2 tool enables you to use interactive commands to fix one issue at a time. If
        you have multiple issues, you may have to run the tool iteratively to find and resolve all
        the issues. Use the following utilities and commands to find the issues.Find issues using diagnostic tools
Master logs
The Apache HBase Master runs all the cluster start and stop operations, RegionServer
                assignment, and server crash handling. Everything that the Master does is a
                procedure on a state machine engine and each procedure has an unique procedure ID
                (PID). You can trace the lifecycle of a procedure by tracking its PID through the
                entries in the Master log. Some procedures may spawn sub-procedures and wait for the
                sub-procedure to complete. 
You can trace the sub-procedure by tracking its PID and the parent PID (PPID). 
If there is a problem with RegionServer assignment, the Master prints a STUCK log
                entry similar to the following:
                2018-09-12 15:29:06,558 WARN
org.apache.hadoop.hbase.master.assignment.AssignmentManager: STUCK
Region-In-Transition rit=OPENING, location=va1001.example.org,00001,1000173230599, 
table=IntegrationTestBigLinkedList_20180626110336, 
region=dbdb56242f17610c46ea044f7a42895b
Master user interface
Status tables
You can find issues in your HBase tables by looking at the status tables
                section in the Master user interface home page. Look through the list of tables to
                identify if a table is ENABLED, ENABLING, DISABLED, or DISABLING. You can also take
                a look at the regions in transition states: OPEN, CLOSED. For example, there may be
                an issue if a table is ENABLED, some regions are not in the OPEN state, and the
                Master log entries do not have any ongoing assignments.
Procedures and locks
When an Apache HBase cluster is started, the Procedures & Locks page in
                the Master user interface is populated with information about the procedures, locks,
                and the count of WAL files. After the cluster settles, if the WAL file count does
                not reduce, it leads to procedure blocks. You can identify those procedures and
                locks on this page.
You can also get a list of locks and procedures using this command in the HBase
                shell:$ echo "list_locks"| hbase shell &> /tmp/locks.txt
$ echo "list_procedures"| hbase shell &> /tmp/procedures.txt

Apache HBase canary tool
Use the HBase canary tool to verify the state of the assigns in your cluster. You can
                run this tool to focus on just one table or the entire cluster. You can check the
                cluster assign using this command:
                $ hbase canary -f false -t 6000000 &>/tmp/canary.log

Use the -f parameter to look for failed region fetches, and set the -t
                parameter to run for a specified time.

Parent topic: Using the HBCK2 tool to remediate HBase clusters