Cloudera Operational Database CLI commandsCloudera Docs
Cloudera Operational Database CLI commands
You can learn about the various Cloudera Operational Database (COD) CLI commands. You can
    run these commands to do administration and management tasks like create or describe a COD
    instance. Users who have the CDP PowerUser role can run any command, regardless of whether they
    have the ODUser or ODAdmin role.
Download the CDP CLI tool
Before you can use the operataional database CLI commands, you must download the CDP CLI
        client for your operating system. For more information about downloading the CDP CLI client,
        see Installing CDP client.
You can see all the commands and their syntax in the COD CLI command reference
          GitHub page.
You can see all the CDP CLI BETA commands and their syntax in the CDP CLI BETA
          command reference GitHub page. 

Table 1. COD CLI commands

Command
Description
Required Role



create-database
Create a database with the provided name in a given environment.
ODAdmin


describe-client-connectivity
List the available connectors to programmatically interact with the database and
              required information to use each connector.
ODUser


describe-database
Query the details of a database.
ODUser


describe-upgrade-database
Describes the upgrade availability.
ODUser


drop-database
Stop and destroy the database. Data remains in the configured cloud
              storage.
ODAdmin


list-databases
List all databases which the user has permission to view.
ODUser


start-database
Start an existing database.
ODAdmin


stop-database
Stop a database.
ODAdmin


collect-diagnostics 
A link to the download location of the diagnostics bundle.
ODAdmin


list-diagnostics

Returns list of diagnostics collections

ODAdmin


list-supported-environments
List of environments available for the database creation.
ODAdmin


When you run the cdp opdb commands, you must provide your COD database
      name and the CDP environment name as parameters as shown in this example:
      cdp opdb describe-database --database-name [***MY DATABASE NAME***] --environment-name [***MY CDP ENVIRONMENT NAME
***]

Related informationCOD CLI command reference GitHub repositoryCDP CLI BETA command reference GitHub repository