Configuring Delegation for ClientsCloudera Docs
Configuring Delegation for Clients
Impala supports user delegation for client connections.

When users submit Impala queries through a separate application, such
                as Hue or a business intelligence tool, typically all requests are
                treated as coming from the same user. Impala supports delegation
                where users whose names you specify can delegate the execution of a
                query to another user. The query runs with the privileges of the
                delegated user, not the original authenticated user. 
 The name of the delegated user is passed using the HiveServer2
                protocol configuration property impala.doas.user when
                the client connects to Impala. 
 When the client connects over HTTP, the doAs
                parameter can be specified in the HTTP path. For
                example:/?doAs=delegated_user
 Currently, the delegation feature is available only for Impala queries
                submitted through application interfaces such as Hue and BI tools. For
                example, Impala cannot issue queries using the privileges of the HDFS
                user. 
note

 When the delegation is enabled in Impala, the Impala clients
                        should take an extra caution to prevent unauthorized access for the
                        delegate-able users. 
 Impala requires Apache Ranger on the cluster to enable delegation. Without
                        Ranger installed, the delegation feature will fail with an error.



 To enable delegation: 
Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse service.

In the Data Warehouse service, click Virtual Warehouses in
                        the left navigation panel.

Select the Impala Virtual Warehouse, click options for the warehouse
                    you want to configure Proxy User.

Select Edit.

In the Configuration tab, click Impala Coordinator.
 In the Proxy User Configuration field,
                type the a semicolon-separated list of key=value pairs of authorized
                proxy users to the user(s) they can impersonate. The list
                    of delegated users are delimited with a comma, e.g. hue=user1, user2.
                
Click Apply to save the changes.

