Setting Timeout and Retries for Thrift Connections to Backend ClientCloudera Docs
Setting Timeout and Retries for Thrift Connections to Backend
    Client
Impala connections to the backend client are subject to failure
    in cases when the network is momentarily overloaded. 

To avoid failed queries due to transient network problems, you can
        configure the number of Thrift connection retries using the following
        option:


Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse service.

In the Data Warehouse service, click Virtual Warehouses in
              the left navigation panel.

Select the Impala Virtual Warehouse, click options for the warehouse you want to
          set the timeout and retry options.

Click Edit and navigate to Impala Coordinatorunder Configurationstab.

Using the + sign, specify the following if the options are not already added.

To avoid failed queries due to transient network problems, you can
              configure the number of Thrift connection retries using the
              following option:

 The --backend_client_connection_num_retries
                option specifies the number of times Impala will try connecting to
                the backend client after the first connection attempt fails. By
                default, impalad will attempt three
                re-connections before it returns a failure. 

 You can configure timeouts for sending and receiving data from the
              backend client. Therefore, if for some reason a query does not respond, instead
              of waiting indefinitely for a response, Impala will terminate the
              connection after a configurable timeout. 

 The --backend_client_rpc_timeout_ms option can
                be used to specify the number of milliseconds Impala should wait
                for a response from the backend client before it terminates the
                connection and signals a failure. The default value for this
                property is 300000 milliseconds, or 5 minutes. 


Click Apply and restart
          Impala.


Parent topic: Setting Timeouts in Impala