Activating OpenShift environmentsCloudera Docs
Activating OpenShift environments
This topic describes how to activate an environment to use for Cloudera Data
    Warehouse (CDW) Private Cloud on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform (OCP).

Before you can create a Database Catalog to use with a Virtual Warehouse, you must
          activate a CDP environment. Activating an environment causes CDP to connect to the Kubernetes
          cluster, which provides the computing resources for the Database Catalog. In addition,
          activating an environment enables the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service to use the
          existing data lake that was set up for the environment, including all data, metadata, and
          security.



Determine which environment that uses a particular data lake is the environment
                you want to activate for use with a Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouse.
For local caching, ensure that an administrator uses the Local Storage Operator to
          create a local file system on an SSD/NVMe for each OpenShift worker node and then mounts
          it to a known location on the worker node. Make sure that this local caching location
          allows temporary data to be stored in a way that supports performance. You need to specify
          the Storage Class Name from the Local Storage Operator when you activate the environment
          for the CDW service in Step 4 below. For more information about creating a local file
          system on OpenShift worker nodes using the Local Storage Operator, see Persistent storage using local volumes in the
          OpenShift documentation.
(Optional) Go to  Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings and enable the Use deterministic namespace names
          option to use deterministic namespaces for Kerberos principals and keytabs. You cannot
          enable this option after activating an environment.
(Optional) Go to  Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings and enable the Create databases for Virtual
            Warehouses option if you are upgrading the CDP Private Cloud Data Services
          platform from an older release to the latest release, and you want to continue using
          external database for Hue and HMS. You cannot enable this option after activating an
          environment.

noteIf you have more than one OCP clusters managed using different
        instances of Cloudera Manager, but using the same AD server and using the same environment
        name, then go to the  Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings page and ensure that the Use deterministic namespace
          names option is disabled before activating the environment in CDW.


Log in to Data Warehouse service as DWAdmin.

Expand the Environments column by clicking
            More… and locate the Environment that you want to activate.

Click the activation icon.
The Activate Environment dialog box is displayed.






Specify the Storage Class Name from Local Storage
          Operator:

This is the Storage Class Name you specified when you created the local file system for
            caching as described in the above section Before you begin. It is the location where temporary data is stored.
importantBe sure to specify the correct Storage Class Name
            when activating an environment. If an incorrect Storage Class Name is specified, the
            environment might activate successfully, but Virtual Warehouses that use the environment
            do not start.
Optionally, you can specify the Security Context Constraint
            Name.


Specify Delegation Username and Delegation
            Password to impersonate authorization requests from Hue to the Impala
          engine.

noteCDW supports only the following characters for specifying
    the Delegation Password:
lowercase and uppercase alphabets
numbers
whitespace
! “ # $ % & ‘ ( ) * + , - . / : ; < = > ? @ [ ] ^ _ ` { | } ~


Optional: 
Enable low resource mode to deploy CDW on minimum hardware.

noteCloudera recommends that you use the Low Resource Mode option
            for proof of concept (POC) purposes only. This feature is not recommended for production
              deployment.Complex queries and multiple queries on HS2 may fail due to limited
              memory configurations for HMS and HS2 in the low resource mode.


If you are using an external database on your base cluster and want to use a default
          Database Catalog, then you must specify custom database name for Hue in the
            Pre-created database names for default database catalog
          field.
Optional: 
Select KERBEROS from the Hive Authentication
            Mode drop-down menu to use Kerberos as the authentication mode for Hive
          Virtual Warehouses.
The default authentication mode is LDAP.

Click ACTIVATE.


Related informationAdvanced Configuration in CDW Private CloudHow predefined Kerberos principals are used in CDW Private Cloud