Activating Embedded Container Service environmentsCloudera Docs
Activating Embedded Container Service environments
This topic describes how to activate an environment to use for Cloudera Data
        Warehouse (CDW) Private Cloud on Embedded Container Service (ECS).

Before you can create a Database Catalog to use with a Virtual Warehouse, you must
                activate a CDP environment. Activating an environment causes CDP to connect to the
                Kubernetes cluster, which provides the computing resources for the Database Catalog.
                In addition, activating an environment enables the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)
                service to use the existing data lake that was set up for the environment, including
                all data, metadata, and security.



Determine which environment that uses a particular data lake is the environment
                    you want to activate for use with a Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouse.
In ECS environments, the Storage Class Name is automatically obtained from
                    Cloudera Manager.
(Optional) Go to  Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings and enable the Use deterministic namespace
                        names option to use deterministic namespaces for Kerberos
                    principals and keytabs. You cannot enable this option after activating an
                    environment.
(Optional) Go to  Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings and enable the Create databases for Virtual
                        Warehouses option if you are upgrading the CDP Private Cloud
                    Data Services platform from an older release to the latest release, and you want
                    to continue using external database for Hue and HMS. You cannot enable this
                    option after activating an environment.

noteA “default” environment is created by the Control Plane when
                you add a Private Cloud cluster. If you have more than one ECS clusters managed
                using different instances of Cloudera manager, but using the same Active Directory
                (AD) server and using the same “default” environment, then go to the Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings page and ensure that the Use deterministic namespace
                    names option is disabled before activating the environment in
                CDW.


Log in to Data Warehouse service as DWAdmin.

Expand the Environments column by clicking
                        More… and locate the Environment that you want to
                    activate.

Click the activation icon.
The Activate Environment dialog box is displayed.






Specify Delegation Username and Delegation
                        Password to impersonate authorization requests from Hue to the
                    Impala engine.

noteCDW supports only the following characters for specifying
    the Delegation Password:
lowercase and uppercase alphabets
numbers
whitespace
! “ # $ % & ‘ ( ) * + , - . / : ; < = > ? @ [ ] ^ _ ` { | } ~


Optional: 
Enable low resource mode to deploy CDW on minimum hardware.

noteCloudera recommends that you use the Low Resource
                        Mode option for proof of concept (POC) purposes only. This feature is not
                        recommended for production deployment.Complex queries and multiple
                            queries on HS2 may fail due to limited memory configurations for HMS and
                            HS2 in the low resource mode.


Click ACTIVATE.


Related informationAdvanced Configuration in CDW Private CloudHow predefined Kerberos principals are used in CDW Private Cloud