Configure High Availability for Hive-HDFS ACL SyncCloudera Docs
Configure High Availability for Hive-HDFS ACL Sync
Use the following steps to configure high availability for the Ranger Resource
        Mapping Server (RMS) and Hive-HDFS ACL Sync. 

In Cloudera Manager, select Ranger RMS, then select Actions > Add Role
                        Instances. 






On the Add Role Instances page, click Select hosts. 






On the selected hosts page, select a backup Ranger RMS host. A Ranger RM (RR)
                    icon appears in the Added Roles column for the selected host. Click OK to
                    continue. 






The Add Role Instances page is redisplayed with the new backup host. Click
                        Continue. 






Review the settings on the Review Changes page, then click Continue. 






The new role instance appears on the Ranger RMS page. 






In Cloudera Manager, select Ranger RMS, then click Configuration. 


Select the Ranger RMS Server HA checkbox. In the Ranger RMS
                                Server IDs box, add a comma-separated list of IDs for each RMS
                            server.







Use the Add (+) icons for the Ranger RMS Server Advanced Configuration
                            Snippet (Safety Valve) for ranger-rms-conf/ranger-rms-site.xml property
                            to add entries for each RMS host with its corresponding server ID. 



ranger-rms.server.address.id1=<hostname of RMS server for
                                        id1>:8383
ranger-rms.server.address.id2=<hostname of RMS server for
                                        id2>:8383



noteIf SSL is enabled, use port 8484. 










Click Save Changes, then Click the Restart icon.

On the Stale Configurations page, click Restart Stale Services. 

On the Restart Stale Services page, select the Re-deploy client
                        configuration checkbox, then click Restart Now. 

A progress indicator page appears while the services are being restarted. When
                    the services have restarted, click Finish. 


Related informationInstalling Ranger RMS