Sidecar migration from CDH to CDPCloudera Docs
Sidecar migration from CDH to CDP

“Side-car” migration allows you to migrate an existing CDH
      deployment to a new cluster deployed on new (or different) hardware
      running the latest version of CDP Private Cloud Base. Migrations completed
      using this process have several advantages, including minimizing downtime
      during the migration process. You also will have the ability to test your
      workloads at production scale on the new cluster while keeping your
      production system running until you determine that the new cluster is
      ready.
Cloudera provides a variety of tools and documentation to help
      you move your data, service and cluster configurations, security
      configurations, and security policies to the new cluster. The exact
      procedures to follow may depend on the mix of services deployed on your
      cluster. This document can help you to learn how to plan and sequence your
      upgrade. You may need to engage Cloudera Professional Services to plan and
      execute some parts of the upgrade that could require special procedures
      not covered in this document. 
This document will also provide you with links to useful
      information about what you need to know about changes in Cloudera Runtime
      components and how those might affect your workloads. Cloudera recommends
      that you review those documents closely to avoid unexpected changes in
      behavior that may delay your migration.
This method of upgrading your cluster has several advantages: 


Service-level agreements for individual workloads are
          easier to meet because the legacy versions and the CDP versions can
          run in parallel without impacting each other.


Single, well-contained tenants can move one at a time
          without requiring a single coordinated event across all tenants.


Rollback requires coordination only at the workload or
          tenant level rather than at the whole cluster level.


Enables moving directly to CDP from any  CDH 5 or CDH 6
          version. 

Sidecar migration provides the ability to test your workloads at
        production scale on the new cluster without impacting your live
        production environment. 

You can also use a “rolling side-car migration”, where you
      decommission some of the existing cluster hosts, install CDP on the
      decommissioned hosts, and then migrate workloads one at a time. As
      workloads are migrated, you again decommission more hosts and repeat the
      process.
For an overview of other upgrade and migration options, see
        The Four Upgrade and Migration Paths
          to CDP from Legacy Distributions.


Process Overview

A side-car migration consists of the following phases, which
      are discussed in detail in other topics.
1. Pre-migration and planning 
In this phase, you analyze your workloads and datasets to
        determine the type and quantity of hosts required for the migration. You
        also need to consider changes and upgrades to various components used in
        the source cluster. Some components are no longer available in CDP and
        you will need to understand how to migrate to services that provide
        similar functionality. 
After determining the specifications for the destination
        cluster, you can begin to provision your hosts with a supported
        operating system and install the CDP Private Cloud Base software, which
        includes Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime. 

2. Migration
In this phase, you migrate your data and workloads to the
        destination cluster and begin testing for functionality and performance.
        After migrating your data, you can configure the replication process to
        use “snapshots” so that you can keep the data on the destination cluster
        synchronized with the source cluster as you complete your workload
        migration and testing. 
If the cluster is using HDFS Transparent Data Encryption, you
        may also need to migrate KMS ACLs to the new CDP Cluster. 
If the source cluster includes Apache Sentry
        you will need to migrate the Sentry service to Apache Ranger. If the
        source cluster includes Cloudera Navigator you will also need to migrate
        to Apache Atlas. 

3. Post-migration
Some components require additional steps that must be
        performed after the data and workload migration are completed. Review
        the sections for your components in this publication to learn more about
        these requirements. When these steps are complete and you have completed
        your testing, you can move your new cluster(s) into production and
        de-commission the workloads running on the source cluster. 


