Migrating ServicesCloudera Docs
Migrating Services
The steps required in this phase of a Sidecar migration can vary
    depending on the components deployed in the source cluster and planned for
    the destination cluster. In some cases, the order in which you complete
    these migrations should be considered due to dependencies among some
    components. 
Sentry to Ranger Sidecar migration to CDPYou can migrate Apache Sentry to Apache Ranger by exporting     permissions from the source cluster and then importing them to the     destination cluster.Navigator to Atlas Sidecar migration from CDH to CDPTo migrate from Navigator to Apache Atlas, you can extract metadata     from the source cluster and then transform and import the metadata on the     destination cluster. HDFS Sidecar Migration to CDPYou can migrate data stored in HDFS to CDP.  Hive Sidecar Migration from CDH to CDPIf your cluster uses Apache Hive, you will need to migrate     configurations, data, and workloads to the destination cluster. YARN Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler Sidecar migration from CDH to CDPThe YARN Fair Scheduler is not supported in CDP. You must migrate to     use the Capacity Scheduler. HBase Sidecar migration from CDH to CDPYou can use HBase replication and snapshots to migrate HBase tables     to the destination cluster.Impala Sidecar migration to CDPSide-car migration mechanism is best employed when you may have     tighter service-level agreements that preclude an extended, multi-hour     downtime for your workloads. This process aims to minimize downtime on     individual workloads while providing a straightforward roll-back mechanism     on a per-workload basis.Kudu Sidecar Migration from CDH to CDPIf your cluster uses Kudu, you will need to migrate Kudu data and     configurations to the destination cluster. Solr Sidecar migration from CDH to CDPThere are several ways to migrate your Cloudera Search indexes to a     new cluster.Oozie Sidecar migration to CDPTo migrate Oozie to CDP, you must manually migrate workloads and configurations to the     destination cluster. Accumulo Sidecar migration to OpDBYou can migrate the Accumulo service to Operational Database     powered by Apache Accumulo (OpDB) on CDP