Hive Sidecar Migration from CDH to CDPCloudera Docs
Hive Sidecar Migration from CDH to CDP
If your cluster uses Apache Hive, you will need to migrate
    configurations, data, and workloads to the destination cluster. CDP includes a new version of Hive, Hive 3. There are changes
      you should be aware of as you plan to migrate your Hive data to CDP. Implement configuration changes on the destination
          cluster.

Configure properties to the After
                Upgrade value documented in Hive Configuration Property
                Changes . 

Configure critical Hive configurations documented. See Customizing critical Hive
                configurations. 
 Set configuration overrides. See Setting Hive Configuration
                Overrides.
 Set required Hive Configuration Requirements
              and Recommendations documented in Hive Configuration Requirements
                and Recommendations .
 If you configured high availability for the Hive
              Metastore in the source cluster, ensure that it is also enabled in
              the destination cluster. See Configuring HMS for high
                availability.
Use Replication Manager to migrate your Hive
          tables and metastore from the source cluster to the destination
          cluster. Replication Manager is available from the Cloudera
          Manager Admin console on the destination cluster. See Hive/Impala replication
          policy. You can begin replicating data before you are ready to
          take the new cluster to production and then use Snapshots to keep the
          destination cluster in sync with the data on the source cluster. If
          you check the box to replicate Sentry policy to Ranger, you cannot
          change the Ranger policy until your replications and migration are
          complete. See Sentry to Ranger replication for Hive
            replication policies. Migrate Workloads. See Migrating Hive workloads from
            CDH.Complete post-migration steps.
 Read all the Hive documentation for CDP,
              which includes: Configuring HMS for high availability Configuring HMS for high
                availability

If you have any Impala workloads, see Impala Sidecar
              Migration.
Read the Apache Ranger documentation to set up
              access to Hive tables: Using Ranger to Provide
                Authorization in CDP 

Handle syntax changes between Hive 1/2 to 3 as
              documented in Handling syntax changes

Understand ACID tables, as documented in  Migrating Hive workloads to
                ACID

Generate statistics as documented in Generating statistics 

Convert HIVE CLI scripts to Beeline as
              documented in Converting Hive CLI scripts to
                Beeline


Parent topic: Migrating Services