Pre-migration stepsCloudera Docs
Pre-migration steps
There are steps to take before you begin a Sidecar migration. 



Planning

To plan your migration, you need to consider a variety of
      items.


When you provision the new CDP deployment, you should consider the
          type and capacity of the hosts you deploy in your clusters. Ensure
          that hardware is sufficient in speed and capacity to handle your
          current and planned workloads. 


Depending on the software running on the source cluster,
          not all services deployed in CDH clusters have exact
          matches in CDP. Consider how your services will map to updated
          versions of those services or to new services designed to replace the
          legacy software. Configurations and performance tuning may need to be
          adjusted. 


Plan for any updates that may be required in your
          application code. Newer versions may have updated or deprecated APIs
          and replacement services could require you to modify or re-architect
          your applications to use the correct APIs. 




Preparing your hosts
 Install a supported operating system on all hosts.
          To learn about supported operating systems, see the Cloudera Support Matrix.   Install Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime on the
          hosts. See the CDP Private Cloud Base Installation
            Guide


Replicate configurations
When you create your new CDP Private Cloud Base cluster(s) you
      may need to copy some of your custom/tuning configuration from the source
      cluster to the new cluster. These can include properties like thresholds,
      memory limits, ports numbers, directory locations, log file locations,
      etc. These configurations exist for services, clusters, and hosts. Note
      that many CDP services have been updated from earlier versions and there
      may not be a one-to-one correspondence of configuration parameters from
      the old service to the new service. You will need to ensure that you
      understand the new set of configuration options in CDP and that your
      configurations are valid and appropriate for your workloads and
      environment in which the new cluster is deployed.. For migrations from CDH, ​​Cloudera Manager can help you
      identify configuration properties that have been modified from their
      default settings so you can better assess what, if any, configuration
      settings should be explicitly brought over to the new CDP cluster: Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console on the source
        deployment.Click
              Configuration > Non-default
              values.A list of host
          and service properties and their modified values displays.
        Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console on the destination
        deployment. Manually set the desired configuration values on
          services and/or hosts in the new cluster.  For more information, see
            Modifying Configuration Properties
            Using Cloudera Manager.For services that have been updated or replaced, you will need
          to evaluate any functional or performance tuning that may be required
          in the new deployment. The CDP documentation has a great deal of
          information about setting up Cloudera Runtime services. Cloudera
          Professional Services can also assist you with tuning the new
          services.If you are migrating the Hive service, see Hive Sidecar Migration from CDH to CDP for additional
          guidance on configuring Hive in CDP. 

Set up TLS

See:


Configuring TLS Encryption for
              Cloudera Manager Using Auto-TLS


Manually Configuring TLS
              Encryption for Cloudera Manager




Set up Kerberos

See Configuring Authentication in Cloudera
        Manager
Important: If you enable Apache Ranger on the cluster,
      you must configure Kerberos to enforce strong authentication of users.
      Running Apache Ranger on a non-Kerberized CDP environment is not
      supported.

