HBase Sidecar migration from CDH to CDPCloudera Docs
HBase Sidecar migration from CDH to CDP
You can use HBase replication and snapshots to migrate HBase tables
    to the destination cluster.


        Prepare for the migration. Learn about changes in HBase and
          what actions you need to take before migrating your data. See Preparing for data
            migration.
      

        Use Cloudera Manager on the source cluster to take a
          snapshot of all tables you want to migrate to the destination cluster.
          See Migrating HBase from CDH or
              HDP.
      
 Export the snapshots to the destination cluster. See Migrating HBase from CDH or HDP.
        For additional information and debugging advice, see: 
Exporting a Snapshot to Another
              Cluster (CDH 5)
Exporting a Snapshot to Another
              Cluster (CDH 6) 


 Import the snapshot on the destination cluster by running
        the following command in the HBase shell:
        restore_snapshot <snapshot name> 
If you are migrating from CDH 5, you may need to update your client
        application code. See Known Incompatibilities when Upgrading
          from CDH and HDP.
Review the following topics for additional incompatibilities with CDH 5:
Remove PREFIX_TREE Data Block
              Encoding

Validate HFiles
Check co-processor
            classes


        Verify and validate the migrated data on the destination
          cluster. See Verifying and validating if your
              data is migrated


        Test your applications or queries. 
      
 When you have verified and tested your application code and
        are ready to move the applications to production, repeat the above steps
        to synchronize the HBase data with the source cluster.  You can use
          the Hash Table and Sync Table tool to synchronize table data. This
          tool can help improve performance when synchronizing large tables. See
            Use HashTable and SyncTable
            Tool. 


Parent topic: Migrating Services