Replicating Hive data from HDP 3 to CDPCloudera Docs
Replicating Hive data from HDP 3 to CDP
You can replicate Hive ACID and external table data from an HDP 3.1.5.6000 cluster to a
  CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6 or higher cluster by applying patches, and then running the REPL DUMP
  command on the HDP cluster using a cron script. You run the REPL LOAD command on the CDP Private
  Cloud Base cluster using the Hive scheduler.
You follow step-by-step instructions to configure the HDP and CDP clusters. Configuration
   involves a number of policy-level properties and is mandatory. After replicating data, you follow
   detailed steps that describe how to verify the replication.
noteIf you want to use REPL commands to replicate Hive ACID tables between
   CDP Private Cloud Base clusters, ensure that your source cluster is on CDP Private Cloud Base
   7.1.8 or a higher version.

Replicating Hive data You need to meet a few prerequisites to perform this type of replication, apply         patches, and configure the HDP and CDP clusters for replication. From example replication         commands, you see how to replicate your data. Finally, you follow a step-by-step         verification procedure. Configuring the CDP clusterYou need to take advantage of Hive scheduled queries to load replicated workloads         from HDP onto CDP using the REPL LOAD command. In the event of replication process problems,         scheduled query metrics help you troubleshoot. Configuring the HDP clusterYou need to configure the HDP cluster before you dump workload data that you want to replicate on CDP.Configuring wire-encrypted clusters         If CDP clusters are wire-encrypted (TLS-enabled), you need to know how to configure the clusters         for running the Apache Hadoop DistCp (Distributed Copy) command.     Example commands for replicating HDP 3 workloads To perform Hive replication from an HDP 3.1.5.6000 cluster to a CDP Private Cloud         Base 7.1.6 or later cluster, you need to know how to run the REPL DUMP on the HDP cluster         and REPL LOAD on the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. Examples of valid commands helps you         create counterparts to replicate your workloads to CDP. You learn how to replicate data         between HA clusters.Troubleshooting Hive replication using REPLYou need to know how to recover from the FAILED_ADMIN state that stops the         replication process.Repl Command Known IssuesYou need to know the about REPL command issues that you might encounter when replicating   Hive data from HDP to CDP Private Cloud Base in CDP 7.1.6 and earlier. Patches Required on HDPBefore replicating HDP 3.1.5 databases to CDP 7.1.6, you apply JIRAs on HDP-3.1.5.6000         on top of HDP-3.1.5.0. A list of these JIRAs includes links to more information about each         patch.Patches required on CDPBefore replicating HDP 3.1.5 workloads to CDP 7.1.6, you apply several patches to the   CDP cluster.Verifying the Hive data replication from HDP 3.1.5 to 7.1.6After replicating Hive databases from HDP 3.1.5 (with patches) to CDP 7.1.6 (with     patches) you need to verify that the replication succeeded. After verification that databases on     both clusters are in sync, you can stop running workloads on the HDP cluster and restart     workloads on the CDP cluster.