Repl Command Known IssuesCloudera Docs
Repl Command Known Issues
You need to know the about REPL command issues that you might encounter when replicating
  Hive data from HDP to CDP Private Cloud Base in CDP 7.1.6 and earlier. 


HIVE-24896
Incremental replication fails when a managed table is dropped and an external table is
     created with the same name.


 HIVE-24933
Incremental replication fails when an external table is dropped and a managed table is
     created with the same name.


HIVE-24818
Replication fails when there are partitioned views.


HIVE-24676
Show locks call failing for PostgresSQL database if the txnId filter is passed.


HIVE-24698
The ACLs are not synchronized for external tables automatically.


HIVE-24878
Function replication is not initiated if the hive.repl.run.data.copy.tasks.on.target
     policy-level configuration parameter is set to false.
Workaround: By default, the hive.repl.run.data.copy.tasks.on.target policy-level
     configuration parameter is set to true. Before you initiate function replication, ensure that
     this parameter is set to true.


CDPD-23188
Replication of Hive data fails when the external tables in the HDP cluster are replicated to
     a managed warehouse location in the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.
This issue might appear when one of the following condition is true: 
The external tables in HDP are in the managed warehouse location but the
       hive.repl.replica.external.table.base.dir parameter is set to “/”.
The hive.repl.replica.external.table.base.dir parameter is configured with the managed
       warehouse location in the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.

The Managed warehouse location is defined by the hive.metastore.warehouse.dir configuration
     parameter.
Workaround: Perform the following steps to resolve the issue:
a. Configure the hive.repl.replica.external.table.base.dir parameter to a value other than
     “/”. This ensures that the external tables are not replicated to the managed warehouse location
     on target.
b. Configure the hive.repl.replica.external.table.base.dir parameter with a path other than
     the managed warehouse location in CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.



Parent topic: Replicating Hive data from HDP 3 to CDP