Migrate from CDP PVC Base (Hive on Tez) to CDW (LLAP)Cloudera Docs
Migrate from CDP PVC Base (Hive on Tez) to CDW (LLAP)
If you are on the CDP Private Cloud Base platform and running your Hive workloads in the
  Tez container mode (Hive on Tez), learn how you can migrate to CDW Private Cloud and run Hive
  workloads on LLAP mode. LLAP offers ETL performance and scalability for complex data warehousing
  jobs.
Such a move can meet or exceed your customer satisfaction requirements, or cut the expense of
   running your jobs, or both. You set up automatic scaling up of compute resources when needed, or
   shutting down when not needed.
LLAP along with the query isolation feature is best suited for data-intensive queries, such as
   ETL queries, and require auto-scaling based on the total scan size of the query.
You perform the following high-level tasks to migrate from CDP Private Cloud Base (Hive on Tez)
   to CDW (LLAP):

Install CDP Private Cloud Data Services.
Migrate your Hive workloads to CDW.
Perform the post-migration tasks described in Apache Tez processing of Hive jobs.

Hive on Tez in CDP PVC Base vs LLAP in CDW
The direct correlation between YARN on CDP Private Cloud and CDW Private Cloud is the YARN
    queue. Every time you run a Hive query in CDP, Apache Tez requests a container from YARN. Tez
    jobs on YARN allocate containers based on the Tez configurations. Containers used to run queries
    consume a finite amount of memory but rarely use all that memory.
For example, consider a job that runs in 10 containers with each container using 4 GB of
    memory. This translates to 40 GB of memory used by the job. Now, if the actual memory used by
    the job is only 75% of 40 GB, it results in an overallocation of 10 GB of memory.
In comparison, task containers in CDW are allocated 50% faster than the containers on YARN.
    Since the containers are part of a larger Java Virtual Machine (JVM), the memory is already
    allocated for the task and the memory is shared with other task containers in the larger JVM.
    This ensures that there is no overallocation of memory for each task to address the potential
    outlier memory requirement.
The improvements that a CDW Virtual Warehouse instance has for task allocation as compared to
    YARN, translates to as much as 50% fewer resources (memory/cores (executors)) that are required
    to run the same job. A queue in YARN is 100% allocated with no elasticity whereas a Virtual
    Warehouse instance size with 50% of that capacity should be enough to start with.
If the YARN queue only reaches capacity during certain times of the day, then the Virtual
    Warehouse instance can just be a fraction of the total queue size if the instance is configured
    with concurrency auto-scaling.
If the jobs running on the Virtual Warehouse instance are unpredictable or are required only
    during certain times of the day, consider disabling AutoSuspend on the instance so that
    resources are given back when not used.
Some of the other advantages of CDW (LLAP) over Hive on TEZ (YARN) are:

Data Caching
Faster task startup times
Established sessions; no latency establishing a session



Related informationInstalling Private Cloud Data ServicesApache Tez processing of Hive jobsPlanning a Virtual Warehouse instanceHive auto-scaling on CDW Private CloudConfiguring AutoSuspendParent topic: Migrating Hive workloads from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Private Cloud