Migrate Hive workloads from HDP (LLAP) to CDW (LLAP)Cloudera Docs
Migrate Hive workloads from HDP (LLAP) to CDW (LLAP)
If you are on the HDP platform and running your Hive workloads using LLAP (low-latency
  analytical processing), learn how you can migrate to CDW Private Cloud without compromising on the
  performance offered by LLAP.
You perform the following high-level tasks to migrate from HDP (LLAP) to CDW (LLAP):

Upgrade your clusters to CDP Private Cloud Base.
Install CDP Private Cloud Data Services.
Migrate your Hive workloads to CDW.
Perform the post-migration tasks described in Apache Tez processing of Hive jobs.

LLAP in HDP
LLAP on HDP runs on YARN with a persistent LLAP daemon that provides execution and caching of
    data. You can adjust many aspects of the LLAP deployment, such as:

Size of the LLAP daemons (Memory / Executors)
Number of daemons created to scale up and handle large workloads
Number of Apache Tez ApplicationMasters (coordinators) to establish query concurrency
Ratio of memory used for processing and cache

The YARN configurations in HDP are complex and are not usually optimal, leading to poor
    experiences.
In HDP, you could only have one LLAP instance running and the instance was sized to handle
    workloads at peak intervals. The LLAP instances in HDP could not autoscale and consumed a finite
    amount of YARN resources regardless of whether workloads were running or not.
When Hive LLAP is used for large complex ETL queries and without a robust workload management
    in place, large workloads can block BI-type workloads thereby leading to poor user experience
    for BI users.
Some advanced LLAP on YARN implementations may have used ‘Hive Workload Management’ in LLAP to
    help manage query isolation and deal with query outliers. ‘Hive Workload Management’ in LLAP is
    not supported in CDW, however, query isolation in CDW ensures that individual warehouses are
    completely isolated and ensures that instances have sufficient compute resources for their
    workloads.

LLAP in CDW
In CDW Private Cloud, Hive LLAP runs in Docker containers on Kubernetes instead of YARN. The
    Virtual Warehouse instances in CDW are preconfigured to handle the LLAP configurations described
    above and are optimized for your workloads thereby enabling a predictable and stable
    deployment.
CDW offers the following benefits:

Provides isolation by having more than one LLAP instance, which was not easily obtained in
     LLAP on HDP
Enables Virtual Warehouse instances to AutoScale (scale up and down) to address varying
     workload demands
Automatically suspends a Virtual Warehouse instance if workloads cease and Executors are
     left idle for a period of time

While setting up your Virtual Warehouse, consider setting up multiple instances to leverage
    the full use of LLAP that you have enjoyed on HDP. The Virtual Warehouse instances should be
    configured based on the characteristics of the workloads.
Query concurrency in CDW is controlled by the number of Coordinators in an Executor Group.
    HiveServer locates an available query coordinator in the Virtual Warehouse to handle the query.
    The query coordinator generates the final query plan that distributes query tasks across
    available Executors for execution. Each query coordinator can send query tasks to all query
    Executors in the Executor Group. There is a 1:1 ratio of Coordinators to Executor Groups. When
    the query load increases, auto-scaling increases concurrency by adding additional query Executor
    Groups to the Virtual Warehouse instance.
The following table lists the size of the Executor Groups and Coordinators based on the
    Virtual Warehouse size:


Executors
Coordinators (Query Concurrency)

XSMALL
2
2

SMALL
10
10

MEDIUM
20
20

LARGE
40
40


HDP and CDW LLAP terminology map
When migrating HDP LLAP configurations to CDW, you need to familiarize yourself with the
    differences in terminology and default configurations that are available in CDW.

Term
LLAP on HDP
LLAP on CDW

Number of LLAP nodes
num_llap_count
Number of query executors

Number of internal executors in a single LLAP daemon instance.Also described as the
       number of daemons; not the internal number of task slots.
hive.llap.daemon.num.executors
Not available during setup. By default, 12 Executors are allowed per Executor
      Group.

Query Concurrency
hive.server2.tez.sessions.per.default.queue
Known as Coordinators and are configured 1:1 with Executor Groups

Total Daemon Memory Size
hive.llap.daemon.yarn.container.mb
This comes in two modes:
Standard resource mode (Production) allocates 128 GB per daemon
Low resource mode allocates 48 GB per daemon
For more information, see Resource planning.

Daemon Task Memory
llap_heap_size
Preconfigured to 48 GB in Standard resource mode and 16 GB in Low resource
      mode.

Daemon Cache Memory
Calculated difference between total memory allocation - (headroom +
       llap_heap_size)
Calculated value of approximately 70 GB.Total memory (128 GB) - Headroom and task
       memory (48 GB).

Headroom
Refers to an LLAP daemon node's memory used for non-task and non-cache
      requirements.
Configuration to specify number of available coordinators that trigger
      auto-scaling.



Related informationInstalling Private Cloud Data ServicesApache Tez processing of Hive jobsPlanning a Virtual Warehouse instanceHive auto-scaling on CDW Private CloudParent topic: Migrating Hive workloads from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Private Cloud