Migrating Hive workloads from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Private CloudCloudera Docs
Migrating Hive workloads from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Private Cloud
To migrate the Hive workloads to Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Data Service, you must
  have upgraded from your legacy platform to CDP Private Cloud Base. Learn how to set up your
  Virtual Warehouse instance and migrate your workloads to Hive LLAP (Low-Latency Analytical
  Processing) in CDW.
The CDW service provides data warehouses that can be configured and isolated. You scale
   resources up and down to meet your business demands, and save costs by suspending and resuming
   resources automatically.
Hive LLAP along with the query isolation feature is best suited for data-intensive queries,
   such as ETL queries, that require auto-scaling based on the total scan size of the query.
Migrating your Hive workloads to CDW helps you leverage the auto-scaling, workload
   optimization, isolation, data caching, and many other powerful capabilities that CDW offers.
This document aims to help you understand the process of migrating Hive workloads from CDP
   Private Cloud Base to CDW and assumes that you have already upgraded to CDP Private Cloud Base.
   Review the following migration scenarios if you want to migrate to CDW from legacy platforms or
    CDP:


Migrating from HDP to CDW
If you are migrating from HDP and running workloads using LLAP or Hive on Tez, you must
        first upgrade to CDP Private Cloud either through an In-Place upgrade or Sidecar migration. You can then follow the Migrating
        from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW document to migrate your Hive workloads to CDW.To
         understand how LLAP in HDP is different from LLAP in CDW, see Migrate from HDP (LLAP) to CDW (LLAP).




Migrating from CDH to CDW
If you are migrating from CDH and running workloads using Hive on Map Reduce, you must
        first upgrade to CDP Private Cloud either through an In-Place upgrade or Sidecar migration. You can then follow the Migrating
        from CDP PvC Base to CDW document to migrate your Hive workloads to CDW.




Migrating from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW
If you are migrating from CDP PvC Base and running workloads in the Tez container mode
        (Hive on Tez), learn how you can migrate to CDW PvC and run Hive workloads on LLAP mode. For
        more information, see Migrate from CDP Private Cloud (Hive on Tez) to CDW
         (LLAP).



After you have upgraded to CDP Private Cloud, you can install CDP Private Cloud Data Services
   and migrate your workloads to CDW. Use the guidance provided in this document to plan your
   Virtual Warehouse instances based on the workloads that you are running. For more information,
   see Planning a Virtual Warehouse instance.
You must also understand how Hive queries are processed in CDW using the LLAP execution mode
   and be aware of the differences between LLAP in CDW and Hive on Tez in CDP. For more information,
   see Apache Tez processing of Hive jobs.

Related informationInstalling Private Cloud Data ServicesPlanning a CDW Virtual Warehouse instanceA Hive Virtual Warehouse is an instance of compute resources with various options that   allow you to control the size, elasticity, and availability of the data warehouse to meet your   varying workload demands. Therefore, it is essential to understand the type of workloads or number   of concurrent queries that your Virtual Warehouse must serve during peak periods before deciding   the size of your Virtual Warehouse.Apache Tez processing of Hive jobsIf you were running Hive on HDP or CDP, you have been running Hive queries using the   Apache Tez execution engine. Hive in CDW PvC also uses Tez to run queries and is a HiveServer2   endpoint as it is in HDP or CDP. Learn how Tez processes Hive jobs in CDP and CDW and understand   the tasks that you need to perform after migrating your workloads to CDW.Migrate Hive workloads from HDP (LLAP) to CDW (LLAP)If you are on the HDP platform and running your Hive workloads using LLAP (low-latency   analytical processing), learn how you can migrate to CDW Private Cloud without compromising on the   performance offered by LLAP.Migrate from CDP PVC Base (Hive on Tez) to CDW (LLAP)If you are on the CDP Private Cloud Base platform and running your Hive workloads in the   Tez container mode (Hive on Tez), learn how you can migrate to CDW Private Cloud and run Hive   workloads on LLAP mode. LLAP offers ETL performance and scalability for complex data warehousing   jobs.