Planning a CDW Virtual Warehouse instanceCloudera Docs
Planning a CDW Virtual Warehouse instance
A Hive Virtual Warehouse is an instance of compute resources with various options that
  allow you to control the size, elasticity, and availability of the data warehouse to meet your
  varying workload demands. Therefore, it is essential to understand the type of workloads or number
  of concurrent queries that your Virtual Warehouse must serve during peak periods before deciding
  the size of your Virtual Warehouse.
If you are upgrading from legacy platforms or CDP to CDW PvC and migrating workloads that used
   to run on YARN, you may want to consider building your Virtual Warehouse instance as a copy of
   the compute resources that you have defined in the YARN queues. If these YARN queues are sized
   based on workload types, such as BI or ETL, you may use this document as a reference to plan your
   Virtual Warehouse instance.
In CDW, a Virtual Warehouse is categorized based on sizes that represent the size of an
   Executor Group that handles query requests. Queries can only run within the boundaries of an
   Executor Group.
Mixing workloads with different characteristics in the same Executor Group makes it difficult
   to predict Service Level Agreements (SLAs). Therefore, it is important that you understand your
   workloads and plan your Virtual Warehouses based on the workload types.



Business Intelligence (BI) workloads
Business Intelligence (BI) workloads are usually smaller with more targeted datasets.
       Response times need to be optimized because operations depend on near real-time
       analysis.




Research BI workloads
Research BI workloads dive deeper into data exploration than BI workloads. Datasets used
       in research may not always be optimized for performance. In Research BI workloads, the
       balance can tilt more towards the cost side of the equation than that of BI workloads.




Discovery ETL workloads
Discovery ETL workloads are unpredictable and take “Research BI” into longer-running
       exploratory pipelines that might yield desired results.




Production ETL workloads
Production ETL workloads are predictable and usually come with SLAs. They build out the
       data models used by BI and Research that run the business. They can also be very resource
       intensive and traverse through a lot of data.



You must create a Virtual Warehouse instance with these workload characteristics in mind. Data
   Services, where Virtual Warehouse instances are created, provide isolation for other Virtual
   Warehouses or Data Service instances running workloads. However, there is no isolation within an
   Executor Group of a Virtual Warehouse instance.
The following table lists the Virtual Warehouse sizes that you can choose based on the workload
   types that are described above:

XSMALL (2 executors)
SMALL (10 executors)
MEDIUM (20 executors)
LARGE (40 executors)
Custom

BI
X
X




Research BI

X
X



Discovery ETL

X
X
X


Production ETL


X1
X1
X1
1 Consider the Query Isolation mode for Virtual Warehouse instances that
   run complex ETL-type queries requiring intensive data scanning.

Related informationHive auto-scaling on CDW Private CloudHive LLAP auto-scale threshold settingsParent topic: Migrating Hive workloads from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Private Cloud