Customizing critical Hive configurationsCloudera Docs
Customizing critical Hive configurations
As Administrator, you need property configuration guidelines. You need to know which
  properties you need to reconfigure after upgrading. You must understand which the upgrade process
  carries over from the old cluster to the new cluster. 
The CDP upgrade process tries to preserve your Hive configuration property overrides. These
   overrides are the custom values you set to configure Hive in the old CDH or HDP cluster. The
   upgrade process does not perserve all overrides. For example, a custom value you set for
    hive.exec.max.dynamic.partitions.pernode is preserved. In the case of other
   properties, for example hive.cbo.enable, the upgrade ignores any override and
   just sets the CDP-recommended value. 
The upgrade process does not preserve overrides to the configuration values of the
   following properties that you likely need to reconfigure to meet your needs:
hive.conf.hidden.list
hive.conf.restricted.list
hive.exec.post.hooks
hive.script.operator.env.blacklist
hive.security.authorization.sqlstd.confwhitelist
hive.security.command.whitelist


The Apache Hive Wiki describes these properties. The values of these properties are lists. 
The upgrade process ignores your old list and sets a new generic list. For example, the
    hive.security.command.whitelist value is a list of security commands you consider trustworthy and want
   to keep. Any overrides of this list that you set in the old cluster are not preserved. The
   new default is probably a shorter (more restrictive) list than the original default you were
   using in the old cluster. You need to customize this CDP to meet your needs.
Check and change each property listed above after upgrading as described in the next topic. 
Consider reconfiguring more property values than the six listed above. Even if you did not
   override the default value in the old cluster, the CDP default might have changed in a way that
   impacts your work.  

Related informationHive Configuration Property ChangesHive Configuration Requirements and RecommendationsApache Hive Wiki: Configuration PropertiesParent topic: Configuration changes