Difference from next value analytic functionCloudera Docs
Difference from next value analytic function
This article describes how to use the Difference from Next Value analytic function in
    CDP Data Visualization.

Click the field on the measurement shelf.In this example, the
            sum(population) field on the Y Axis
          shelf.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, expand Analytic
            Functions, and select Difference from Next.






In the Analytic Function: Difference from Next Value modal
          window,



In Select aggregate for this measure, leave the default
                  Sum. The other aggregation options are Count, Minimum,
                  Maximum, and Average. In addition, some connection types also
                support Approximate Distinct Count and Exact Distinct Count.


Under Select entities over which to take difference from next
                  value, select year. This is the grouping that applies when
                calculating the difference from next values.


Under Select the sort order, you can specify the order of
                sorting. This order specifies what the next row is, and the row where the value is
                taken. If your visual already specifies sorting order, these values appear in the
                modal. 
noteYou can add additional sort parameters, by clicking the
                  (Plus) icon.
In this example, leave the default order: year ascending, followed by
                  country ascending.

Under Offset, specify the number of next rows over which the
              function executes.






Click APPLY.
Optional: 
If you examine the expression in the Enter/Edit Expression
          interface, it shows that the function has the following form: 

sum([population]) - LEAD(sum([population]), 1) over (partition by [year] 
            order by [year], [country]) 
            as 'diff from next(population)'


Click REFRESH VISUAL.
You can see the change to the appearance of the visual, and the change in values that
          appear on the tooltip.




