Moving average analytic functionCloudera Docs
Moving average analytic function
This article describes how to use the Moving Average analytic function in CDP
    Data Visualization.

Click the field on the measurement shelf.In this example, the
            sum(population) field on the Y Axis
          shelf.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, expand Analytic
            Functions, and select Moving Average.






In the Analytic Function: Moving Average modal window:



In Select aggregate for this measure, leave the default
                  Sum. The other aggregation options are Count, Minimum,
                  Maximum, and Average. In addition, some connection types also
                support Approximate Distinct Count and Exact Distinct Count.


Under Select entities over which to calculate moving
                  averages, select year. This is the grouping that applies when
                calculating the moving average.


Under Select the sort order, you can specify the order of
                sorting. This order specifies what the row is, and the row where the value is taken.
                If your visual already specifies sorting order, these values appear in the modal. 
noteYou can add additional sort parameters, by clicking the
                  (Plus) icon.
In this example, leave the default order: year ascending, followed by
                  country ascending.


Under Rows to include in the average (relative to current
                  row), the options for leading rows are: All previous rows,
                  Current row, or Previous row(s) (default). Select the last option,
                then specify the number of preceding rows for the calculation; the default is 5, but
                we changed it to 2.
Similarly, the options for following rows are: All forward rows, Current
                  row (default), or Forward row(s). Select the last option; the default
                is 5, but we changed it to 2.







Click APPLY.
Optional: 
If you examine the expression in the Enter/Edit Expression
          interface, it shows that the function has the following form: 

avg(sum([population])) over (partition by [year] order by [year], [country] 
            rows between 2 preceding and 2 following) as 'moving average(population)'


Click REFRESH VISUAL.

You can see the change to the appearance of the visual, and the change in values that
            appear on the tooltip.






