Difference from previous value analytic functionCloudera Docs
Difference from previous value analytic function
This article describes how to use the Difference from Previous Value analytic function
    in CDP Data Visualization.

Click the field on the measurement shelf.In this example, the
            sum(population) field on the Y Axis
          shelf.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, expand Analytic
            Functions, and select Difference from Previous.






In the Analytic Function: Difference from Previous Value modal
          window:



In Select aggregate for this measure, leave the default
                  Sum. The other aggregation options are Count, Minimum,
                  Maximum, and Average. In addition, some connection types also
                support Approximate Distinct Count and Exact Distinct Count.


Under Select entities over which to take difference from previous
                  value, select year. This is the grouping that applies when
                calculating the difference from previous values.


Under Select the sort order, you can specify the order of
                sorting. This order specifies what the previous row is, and the row where the value
                is taken. If your visual already specifies sorting order, these values appear in the
                modal.
noteYou can add additional sort parameters, by clicking the
                  (Plus) icon.
In this example, leave the default order: year ascending, followed by
                  country ascending.

Under Offset, specify the number of previous rows over which
              the function executes.






Click APPLY.
Optional: 
If you examine the expression in the Enter/Edit Expression
          interface, it shows that the function has the following form: sum([population]) -
            LAG(sum([population]), 1) over (partition by [year] order by [year], [country]) as
            'difference from previous value(population)'

Click REFRESH VISUAL.
You can see the change to the appearance of the visual, and the change in values that
          appear on the tooltip.




