Supported connectionsCloudera Docs
Supported connections
CDP Data Visualization supports several analytic functions that examine overlapping
  groupings of data.
Analytic functions are similar to aggregate functions because both use the contents of multiple
   data input rows to calculate the result. Analytic functions use flexible conditions that are
   specified by the OVER(...) clause to order and group input so that specific rows
   may be part of the calculation for several output values.
noteAnalytic functions do not validate in the Enter/Edit Expression
   editor. Refresh the visual to see if the function generates any errors.
Syntax for analytic functions is slightly different depending on the type of data connection
      used.
Supported Data Connections include the following:

Impala
Hive
PostgreSQL
SparkSQL
RedShift

The Analytic Functions field properties are not available on MariaDB, MySQL, non-Oracle SQLite,
      Apache Drill, and Apache Solr connections.
note

Syntax for analytic functions is slightly different depending on the type of data connection
          used. Analytic functions are not available for connections to MySQL, SQLite, Drill, MS Sql
          Server, Teradata, Solr, KSql, and MariaDB.
In the query execution order, analytic functions follow the WHERE and
      GROUP BY clauses. Therefore, the function excludes the rows that are filtered
     out by these mechanisms, and they never become part of the analytic function data subset.
When using both analytic functions and ordering, the available ordering options include all
     fields that are on the shelves, less the fields that are on the Filters
     shelf. To sort a visual on the results of an analytic functions, place the field used in the
     analytic function onto the Tooltips shelf. For more information, see Customizing order
      and top K.
Use the Customizing enter/edit expressions option for running analytic functions that
     are not automated within CDP Data Visualization.



Related informationCustomizing order and top KCustomizing enter/edit expressions