What's new in Workload XM?Cloudera Docs
What's new in Workload XM?
This section lists the major features and updates for Workload XM.



Workload XM release 2.3.0
This release provides the following additional features and functionality improvements: 
Trigger actions across more service modules with the new and improved Workload XM Auto Actions
You can now trigger actions across more service modules on your workload applications,
        jobs, and queries with the Workload XM Auto Actions feature. Action notifications
        can act as checkpoints that help you monitor your workloads. They alert you with an email
        when you need to apply a corrective action, or they can alert you with an email and trigger
        an action that kills the application, job, or query. 
New and improved changes include:
A new auto action that enables you to kill an application, job, or query.
Added support for defining auto actions specifically for Hive, Impala, MapReduce, and
            Spark.
Additional conditions and operators that help you define your action's threshold
            value.
 Additionally, all auto action events are now recorded in an Audit log to help you
        manage and troubleshoot your Workload XM auto actions.

Display and monitor the state, activity, and performance of your Workload XM
        cluster services with the new Workload XM metric charts and Health Checks
The Workload XM metrics collect information that measure the state, activity,
        and performance of the Workload XM cluster services. The metrics are visually
        displayed as charts in the Workload XM Cluster and the Workload XM
        Cluster Services pages from the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. Each metric chart can be
        opened to display more detailed information for further analysis. noteThe Workload XM cluster services metrics are viewable in
          Cloudera Manager version 7.5.3 and above. They also require Workload XM version
          2.2.2 or 2.3.0 and the latest version of Telemetry Publisher.
You can also manually build a Workload XM metric chart in Cloudera Manager using
        the Cloudera Manager Chart builder and the Workload XM services metric name. For
        more information, see Related Information.


Related informationTriggering Actions across Jobs and QueriesUnderstanding the Workload XM Cluster Services MetricsWorkload XM Cluster Services MetricsWorkload XM Cluster Services Health Checks
Workload XM release 2.2.2
There are no new features or functionality improvements in the Workload XM
  2.2.2 release. For more information, see Fixed Issues.


Related informationIssues fixed in Workload XM 2.2.2
Workload XM release 2.2.1
 This release provides the following additional features and functionality improvements: 
Remove obsolete HDFS files Manually with the Workload XM Purge Event 
Reduce bottlenecks between Telemetry Publisher and Workload XM, by manually
        running a Workload XM purge event. The Workload XM purge feature now
        enables you to manually remove obsolete HDFS data that could cause a backlog or block
        Telemetry Publisher from ingesting and sending newer data to Workload XM. The
        purge event is based on the file’s data group and the data group’s retention limit.

Control user access with the Workload XM Role Based Access Control (RBAC)
     feature
Control the security and access management of your Workload XM
       environment by assigning Workload XM roles with the Role Based Access Control
       (RBAC) feature. 
Workload XM now supports cluster privilege role types that define who
       is entitled to access jobs and queries that are created by the user, who is entitled to
       create and administer cost centers and view cluster costs, and who is entitled to access and
       administer jobs and queries within either a specific cluster or across all clusters within
       the Workload XM environment. 
Limiting the trust boundary for jobs, queries, cluster costs, and administrative
       management at the cluster level, enables more control over the security and access
       management of your Workload XM environment.

Related informationAssigning Access Roles in Workload XMManually Executing a Workload XM Purge Event
Workload XM release 2.2.0
 This release provides the following additional features and functionality improvements: 
Analyze your cluster, job, and query costs with the Workload XM Chargeback
        feature
Easily define customized cost centers with the Chargeback feature. Once defined Workload XM visually displays a cluster’s current and historical costs. This new
        feature enables you to create Workload XM cost centers for your workload clusters
        based on user or pool resource criteria and CPU and memory consumption. Once created you can
        then plan and forecast budgets and future workload environments and/or justify current user
        groups and resources using your Workload cluster’s cost insights.

Trigger action events across your jobs and queries with the Workload XM Auto
        Actions - Notifications feature
This new feature triggers an action event in real-time based on your criteria. When a job
        or query meets your action's criteria and its conditions exist the action's event is
        triggered. For example, memory exhaustion can cause nodes to crash or jobs to fail. Knowing
        when available memory is falling below a specific threshold enables you to take steps before
        a potential problem occurs. With the Auto Actions feature, you can create an action that
        informs you through an email when a job is consuming too much memory so that you can take
        steps to alleviate a potential problem.

Remove obsolete HDFS files with the Workload XM Purge Event 
Reduce bottlenecks between Telemetry Publisher and Workload XM, by configuring
        and scheduling the new Workload XM purge event. This feature enables you to
        remove obsolete HDFS data that could cause a backlog or block Telemetry Publisher from
        ingesting and sending newer data to Workload XM. The purge event is based on the
        file’s data group and the data group’s retention limit.

Control user access with the Workload XM Role Based Access Control (RBAC)
     feature
Control the security and access management of your Workload XM
       environment by assigning Workload XM roles with the Role Based Access Control
       (RBAC) feature. 
Workload XM now supports cluster privilege role types that define who
       is entitled to access jobs and queries that are created by the user, who is entitled to
       create and administer cost centers and view cluster costs, and who is entitled to access and
       administer jobs and queries within either a specific cluster or across all clusters within
       the Workload XM environment. 
Limiting the trust boundary for jobs, queries, cluster costs, and administrative
       management at the cluster level, enables more control over the security and access
       management of your Workload XM environment.
Display and monitor your cluster and its services memory consumption with the new
        resource consumption widgets in the Summary page

Resource Consumption By Services, displays the CPU and memory
          consumption for each service across the time range you selected. Hover your mouse over the
          time line, to display the amount of CPU or memory, as a percentage, that is consumed by
          each of the cluster's services. 
Resource Consumption By Nodes, displays the CPU and memory
          consumption for each node in the cluster. Hover your mouse over the time line, to display
          the amount of CPU or memory, as a percentage, that is consumed by each node and its
          services. 



Related informationAnalyzing Your Workload Cluster Costs with Workload XM Cost CentersTriggering an Action across Jobs and QueriesPurging HDFS DataIdentify and Address Resource Contentions