Controlling User Access to FeaturesCloudera Docs
Controlling User Access to Features
Cloudera Machine Learning provides Site Administrators with
    the ability to restrict or hide specific functionality that non-Site
    Administrator users have access to in the UI. For example, a site
    administrator can hide the models and experiments features from the ML
    workspace UI. 

The settings on this page can be configured through the
          Security and Settings
        tabs on the Admin page.Table 1. Security Tab

Property
Description



Allow remote editing
Disable this property to prevent users from connecting to
                  the Cloudera Machine Learning deployment with
                    cdswctl and using local IDEs, such as
                  PyCharm.


Allow only session creators to run
                    commands on active sessions
By default, a user's permission to active sessions in a
                  project is the same as the user's permission to that project,
                  which is determined by the combination of the user's
                  permission as a project collaborator, the user's permission in
                  the team if this is a team project, and whether the user is a
                  Site Administrator. By checking this checkbox, only the user
                  that created the active session will be able to run
                  commands in that session. No other users, regardless of their
                  permissions in the team or as project collaborators, will be
                  able to run commands on active sessions that are not
                  created by them. Even Site Administrators will not be able to
                  run commands in other users' active sessions.


Allow console output
                  sharing
Disable this property to remove the Share button from the
                  project workspace and workbench UI as well as disable access
                  to all shared console outputs across the deployment. Note that
                  re-enabling this property does not automatically grant access
                  to previously shared consoles. You will need to manually share
                  each console again


Allow anonymous access to shared console
                    outputs
Disable this property to require users to be logged in to
                  access shared console outputs.


Allow file upload/download through
                    UI
Use this checkbox to show/hide file upload/download UI in
                  the project workspace. When disabled, Cloudera Machine Learning API will forbid request of downloading file(s) as
                  attachment. Note that the backend API to upload/edit/read the
                  project files are intact regardless of this change in order to
                  support basic Cloudera Machine Learning functionality
                  such as file edit/read.


Table 2. Settings Tab

Property 
Description



Require invitation to sign up
Enable this property to send email invitations to users when you add them to a group.
              To send email, an SMTP server must first be configured in Settings > Email.


Allow users to create public
                  projects
Disable this property to restrict users from creating new
                public projects. Site Administrators will have to create any new
                public projects.


Allow Legacy Engine users to use the Python 2
                kernel
Enable this property to allow Legacy Engine users to select the Python 2 kernel
                when creating a job. Python 2 is disabled by default.


Allow users to create
                projects
Disable this property to restrict users from creating new
                projects. Site Administrators will have to create any new
                projects.


Allow users to create teams
Disable this property to restrict users from creating new
                teams. Site Administrators will have to create any new
                teams.


Allow users to run
                experiments
Disable this property to hide the Experiments feature in
                the UI. Note that this property does not affect any active
                experiments. It will also not stop any experiments that have
                already been queued for execution. 


Allow users to create models
Disable this property to hide the Models feature in the UI.
                Note that this property does not affect any active models. In
                particular, if you do not stop active models before hiding the
                Models feature, they continue to serve requests and consume
                computing resources in the background.


Allow users to create
                applications
Disable this property to hide the Applications feature in
                the UI. Note that this property does not affect any active
                applications. In particular, if you do not stop active
                applications before hiding the feature, they continue to serve
                requests and consume computing resources in the
                background.




