Managing UsersCloudera Docs
Managing Users
This topic describes how to manage an ML workspace as a site administrator. Site
    administrators can monitor and manage all user activity across a workspace, add new custom
    engines, and configure certain security settings. 
By default,
      the first user that logs in to a workspace must always be a site administrator. That is, they
      should have been granted the MLAdmin role by a CDP PowerUser. noteOn Private Cloud, the
        corresponding role is EnvironmentAdmin.importantSite administrators have complete access to all activity on the deployment. This includes access to all
        teams and projects on the deployment, even if they have not been explicitly added as team
        members or collaborators.

Only site
      administrators have access to a Site Administration dashboard that can
      be used to manage the workspace. To access the site administrator dashboard:
Go to the Cloudera Machine Learning web application and log in as a
          site administrator.
On the left sidebar, click Site Administration. You will see an
          array of tabs for all the tasks you can perform as a site administrator. 





Monitoring Users
The Users tab
        on the admin dashboard displays the complete list of users. You can see which users are
        currently active, and when a user last logged in to Cloudera Machine Learning. You can
        search for a user by entering their User Id, Username, or Email in the User quick
          find box. To modify a user's username, email or permissions, click the
          Edit button under the Action
        column.

Synchronizing Users
You can synchronize Users within an ML Workspace with those that have been defined access
        at the Environment level (through the MLAdmin, MLUser, and MLBusinessUser roles). Doing so
        for new Users enables you to take administrative actions such as setting Team assignments,
        defining Project Collaborators, and more, all prior to the new Users’ first time logging in
        to the Workspace.
To synchronize Users, go to Site Administration > Users, and click Synchronize Users. This adds any users
        defined at the Environment level to the workspace, updates any role changes that have been
        made, and deactivates any users that have been deactivated.noteThe Administrator should
          periodically perform user synchronization to ensure that users who are deactivated on the
          environment level are also deactivated in CML. 

Synchronizing Groups
Groups of users can be created in the CDP management console and imported to CML. However,
        changes made in CDP do not automatically update in CML. You need to manually trigger an
        update, using Sync Teams. For more information, see Creating a
          Team.


Related informationCloudera Machine Learning Email NotificationsCreating a Team