Monitoring Cloudera Machine Learning ActivityCloudera Docs
Monitoring Cloudera Machine Learning Activity
This topic describes how to monitor user activity on an ML workspace. 

Required Role: Site AdministratorThe Admin > Overview tab displays basic information about your deployment, such as the number
            of users signed up, the number of teams and projects created, memory used, and some
            average job scheduling and run times. You can also see the version of Cloudera Machine
            Learning you are currently running.The Admin > Activity tab of the dashboard displays the following time series charts. These
            graphs should help site administrators identify basic usage patterns, understand how
            cluster resources are being utilized over time, and how they are being distributed among
            teams and users. 

importantThe graphs and numbers on the Admin > Activity page do not account for any resources used by active models on the
            deployment. For that information, go to Admin > Models page. 



CPU - Total number of CPUs requested by sessions running at this time. 
Note that code running inside an n-CPU session, job, experiment or model
                     replica can access at least n CPUs worth of CPU time. Each user pod can utilize
                     all of its host's CPU resources except the amount requested by other user
                     workloads or Cloudera Machine Learning application components. For example, a
                     1-core Python session can use more than 1 core if other cores have not been
                     requested by other user workloads or CML application components.


Memory - Total memory (in GiB) requested by sessions running at this
                  time.

GPU - Total number of GPUs requested by sessions running at this time.

Runs - Total number of sessions and jobs running at this time. 

Lag - Depicts session scheduling and startup times. 

Scheduling Duration: The amount of time it took for a session pod to
                        be scheduled on the cluster.

Starting Duration: The amount of time it took for a session to be
                        ready for user input. This is the amount of time since a pod was scheduled
                        on the cluster until code could be executed. 




The Export Sessions List provides a CSV export file of the
            columns listed in the table. It is important to note that the exported duration column
            is in seconds for a more detailed output.

Tracked User EventsThe tables on this page describe the user events that are logged by     Cloudera Machine Learning.Monitoring User EventsThis topic shows you how to  query the PostgresSQL database that is     embedded within the Cloudera Machine Learning deployment to monitor or     audit user events. 