Services backed by PostgreSQL fail or stop respondingCloudera Docs
Services backed by PostgreSQL fail or stop responding
When the number of connections between the CDP services and the PostgreSQL database
        exceeds the preset connection limit, it is possible that a new connection fails, Cloudera
        Manager stops responding, and you cannot log into Hue. The logs show a “FATAL:
            remaining connection slots are reserved for non-replication superuser
            connections”
        error.

The number of connections between the CDP services and the PostgreSQL database is
                governed by the max_connections setting. By default, the maximum
                number of available connections to your PostgreSQL database is 115. 15 connections
                are reserved for the superuser to maintain the state and integrity of your database,
                and 100 connections are available for CDP and other
                services.
noteThere is a higher probability for this issue to occur in Hue because Cloudera
                Manager starts the Hue service after starting other CDP services. Therefore, the Hue
                service gets relatively fewer connections to PostgreSQL as compared to other
                services sharing the same database.


Check the number of available and idle connections:


SSH into the PostgreSQL database from the command-line client
                                psql as an admin user.


Run the following query to check the number of idle connections:

SELECT datname, count(datname) FROM pg_stat_activity WHERE state = 'idle' GROUP BY datname;



Run the following query to check the number of connections currently in
                            use:

SELECT datname, count(datname) FROM pg_stat_activity GROUP BY datname;



Run the following command to view the maximum number of
                            connections:

show max_connections;



Run the following query to know where the connections are going:

SELECT datname, numbackends FROM pg_stat_database;




If most connections are idle and the max_connections value is
                    less than 100, then increase the max_connections value in
                        the postgresql.conf file:


Log into Cloudera Manager and stop all services that use the PostgreSQL
                            database.


SSH into the host on which the PostgreSQL server is running.


Open the postgresql.conf file for editing.
The postgresql.conf file is typically present in the
                                /var/lib/pgsql/data directory. But this may
                            vary depending on where you have installed the database. 


Increase the value of max_connections as per the
                            following recommendation:
Allow a maximum of 100 connections for each database and add 50 extra
                            connections. For example, for two databases, set the maximum connections
                            to 250.
If you store five databases on one host (the databases for Cloudera
                            Manager Server, Activity Monitor, Reports Manager, Apache Atlas, and
                            Hive Metastore), set the maximum connections to 550.


Save the changes and exit.


Restart the PostgreSQL database by running the following command:

pg_ctl restart



Restart all the affected services from Cloudera Manager.



If increasing the connection limit does not solve your
            problem and you see a need to scale up, then add new PostgreSQL instances on other hosts
            and migrate the services to those hosts with the help of your Database Administrator
            (DBA).

