Understanding CREATE TABLE behaviorCloudera Docs
Understanding CREATE TABLE behavior
Hive table creation has changed significantly since Hive 3 to improve useability and
  functionality. You must understand the default behavior of the CREATE
   TABLE statement in CDP Public Cloud.
 
Hive has changed table creation in the following ways:
Creates ACID-compliant table, which is the default in CDP
Supports simple writes and inserts
Writes to multiple partitions
Inserts multiple data updates in a single SELECT statement
Eliminates the need for bucketing.

If you have an ETL pipeline that creates tables in Hive, the tables will be created as ACID.
   Hive now tightly controls access and performs compaction periodically on the tables. Using
   ACID-compliant, transactional tables causes no performance or operational overload. The way you
   access managed Hive tables from Spark and other clients changes. In CDP, access to external
   tables requires you to set up security access permissions.
In CDP Public Cloud, by default, the CREATE TABLE
   statement creates a full ACID transactional table in ORC format or insert-only transactional
   tables for all other table formats. You can choose to modify the default behavior by configuring
   certain properties. The order of preference for configuration is as follows:
Modify the default CREATE TABLE behavior

Override default behavior when creating the table
Irrespective of the database, session, or site-level settings, you can override the default
      table behavior by using the MANAGED or EXTERNAL keyword in the CREATE TABLE
      statement.CREATE [MANAGED][EXTERNAL] TABLE foo (id INT);
Set the default table type at a database level
You can use the database property, defaultTableType=EXTERNAL or ACID to
      specify the default table type to be created using the CREATE TABLE statement. You can specify
      this property when creating the database or at a later point using the ALTER DATABASE
      statement. For
       example:CREATE DATABASE test_db WITH DBPROPERTIES ('defaultTableType'='EXTERNAL');In
       this example, tables created under the test_db database using the CREATE
       TABLE statement creates external tables with the purge fucntionality enabled
        (external.table.purge = 'true').You can also choose to configure a
       database to allow only external tables to be created and prevent creation of ACID tables.
       While creating a database, you can set the database property,
        EXTERNAL_TABLES_ONLY=true to ensure that only external tables are created in the
       database. For
       example:CREATE DATABASE test_db WITH DBPROPERTIES ('EXTERNAL_TABLES_ONLY'='true');
Set the default table type at a session level
You can configure the CREATE TABLE behavior within an existing beeline session by setting
       hive.create.as.external.legacy to true or false. Setting the value to true
      results in configuring the CREATE TABLE statement to create external tables by default.When
       the session ends, the default CREATE TABLE behavior also ends.
Set the default table type at a site level
You can configure the CREATE TABLE behavior at the site level by configuring the
       hive.create.as.insert.only and hive.create.as.acid
      properties in Cloudera Manager under Hive configuration. When configured at the site level,
      the behavior persists from session to session. 

If you are a Spark user, switching to legacy behavior is unnecessary. Calling ‘create table’
    from SparkSQL, for example, creates an external table after upgrading to CDP as it did before
    the upgrade. You can connect to Hive using the Hive Warehouse Connector (HWC) to read Hive ACID
    tables from Spark. To write ACID tables to Hive from Spark, you use the HWC and HWC API. Spark
    creates an external table with the purge property when you do not use the HWC API. For more
    information, see Hive Warehouse Connector for accessing Spark data.


Parent topic: Apache Hive 3 tables