Setting schema access strategy in NiFiCloudera Docs
Setting schema access
      strategy in NiFi
Learn how to add Controller Services in NiFi globally or per Process Group and then
      how to configure them so that they can fetch schemas from Schema Registry.
You can configure Controller Services either globally, before you have created a Process
         Group, or at any time, on a per Process Group basis.
Adding Controller Services globally

To access the Controller Services configuration dialog for gobal configuration,
               click the Global Menu at the top right of your canvas, and
               select Controller Settings.
Click the + icon to display the NiFi
                  Settings dialog.
Use the Filter box to search for the Controller Service you
               want to add, select that service, and click Add.


Adding Controller Services per Process Group

Click on your Process Group, and then right-click anywhere on your canvas.
Click Configure to display the Process Group
                  Configuration dialog.
Click the Controller Services tab, and then click
                  + to display the Add Controller
                  Service dialog.
Use the Filter box to search for the Controller Service you
               want to add, select that service, and click Add.


Configuring record reader and writer Controller Services for integration with Schema
            Registry

From the Process Group Configuration view, click the
                  Edit icon from the right-hand column. The
                  Configure Controller Service dialog appears.
Click the Properties tab.
The Schema Access Strategy specifies how to obtain the schema to
               be used for interpreting FlowFile data. To ensure integration with Schema Registry,
               configure Schema Access Strategy with one of the following two
                  values:

HWX Schema Reference Attributes
The NiFi FlowFile is given a set of 3 attributes to describe the schema:

schema.identifier


schema.version


schema.protocol.version




HWX Content-Encoded Schema Reference
Each NiFi FlowFile contains a reference to a schema stored in Schema
                        Registry. The reference is encoded as a single byte indicating the protocol
                        version, 8 bytes indicating the schema identifier and 4 bytes indicating the
                        schema version.


The Schema Write Strategy specifies how the schema for a record
               should be added to FlowFile data. To ensure integration with Schema Registry,
               configure Schema Write Strategy with either HWX Schema
                  Reference Attributes or HWX Content-Encoded Schema
                  Reference.



Parent topic: Integrating Schema Registry with NiFi