Checklist: Installing and Configuring the KDCCloudera Docs
Checklist: Installing and
      Configuring the KDC
Ambari is able to configure Kerberos in the cluster to work with an existing MIT KDC,
      or existing Active Directory installation. This section describes the steps necessary to
      prepare for this integration.

You can choose to have Ambari connect to the KDC and automatically create the necessary
            Service and Ambari principals, generate and distribute the keytabs (“Automated Kerberos
            Setup”). Ambari also provides an advanced option to manually configure Kerberos. If you
            choose this option, you must create the principals, generate and distribute the keytabs.
            Ambari will not do this automatically (“Manual Kerberos Setup”).
Supported Key Distribution Center (KDC) Versions
Microsoft Active Directory 2008 and above
MIT Kerberos v5
FreeIPA 4.x and above

There are four ways to install/configure the KDC:
Using an existing MIT KDC
Install a new MIT KDC (See "Optional: Install a new MIT KDC")
Using an existing IPA
Using an existing AD
Using manual Kerberos setup



Option
Checklist



Using an existing MIT KDC



Ambari Server and cluster hosts have network access to both the KDC
                                 and KDC admin hosts.


KDC administrative credentials are on-hand.





Install a new MIT KDC
See “Optional: Install a new MIT KDC”


Using an existing IPA
See “Optional: Use an Existing IPA”


Using an existing AD



Ambari Server and cluster hosts have network access to, and be able
                                 to resolve the DNS names of, the Domain Controllers.


Active Directory secure LDAP (LDAPS) connectivity has been
                                 configured.


Active Directory User container for service principals has been
                                 created and is on-hand. For example,
                                 "OU=Hadoop,OU=People,dc=apache,dc=org"


Active Directory administrative credentials with delegated control
                                 of “Create, delete, and manage user accounts” on the previously
                                 mentioned User container are on-hand.





Using manual Kerberos setup



Cluster hosts have network access to the KDC.


Kerberos client utilities (such as kinit) have been installed on
                                 every cluster host.


The Java Cryptography Extensions (JCE) have been setup on the
                                 Ambari Server host and all hosts in the cluster.


The Service and Ambari Principals will be manually created in the
                                 KDC before completing this wizard.


The keytabs for the Service and Ambari Principals will be manually
                                 created and distributed to cluster hosts before completing this
                                 wizard.






Parent topic: Enable Kerberos