Launch the Kerberos Wizard (Automated Setup)Cloudera Docs
Launch the Kerberos Wizard (Automated Setup)
Choose the Kerberos
      Wizard Automated Setup if you will use an existing MIT KDC or Active Directory, as opposed to
      managing Kerberos principals and keytabs manually.

Be sure you have installed and configured your KDC and have prepared the JCE on
               each host in the cluster.

Log in to Ambari Web and Browse to Admin > Kerberos.

Click “Enable Kerberos” to launch the wizard.

Select the type of KDC you are using and confirm you have met the
               prerequisites.

Provide information about the KDC and admin account.


In the KDC section, enter the following information:

In the KDC Host field, the IP address or FQDN for the KDC host.
                           Optionally a port number may be included.
In the Realm name field, the default realm to use when creating
                           service principals.
(Optional) In the Domains field, provide a list of patterns to
                           use to map hosts in the cluster to the appropriate realm. For example, if
                           your hosts have a common domain in their FQDN such as
                           host1.hortonworks.local and host2.hortonworks.local, you would set this
                           to: .hortonworks.local,hortonworks.local



In the Kadmin section, enter the following information:

In the Kadmin Host field, the IP address or FQDN for the KDC
                           administrative host. Optionally a port number may be included.
The Admin principal and password that will be used to
                           create principals and keytabs.
(Optional) If you have configured Ambari for encrypted passwords, the
                              Save Admin Credentials option will be enabled. With this
                           option, you can have Ambari store the KDC Admin credentials to use when
                           making cluster changes. Refer to “Update KDC Admin Credentials” for
                           more information on this option.




Modify any advanced Kerberos settings based on your environment.


(Optional) To manage your Kerberos client krb5.conf manually (and not have
                     Ambari manage the krb5.conf), expand the Advanced krb5-conf section and
                     uncheck the "Manage" option. You must have the krb5.conf configured on each
                        host.
When manually managing the krb5.conf it is recommended to ensure that DNS is
                     not used for looking up KDC, and REALM entries. Relying on DNS can cause
                     negative performance, and functional impact. To ensure that DNS is not used,
                     ensure the following entries are set in the libdefaults section of your
                     configuration.[libdefaults]
dns_lookup_kdc = false
dns_lookup_realm = false


(Optional) to configure any additional KDC's to be used for this environment,
                     add an entry for each additional KDC to the realms section of the
                        Advanced krb5-conf's krb5-conf template.

kdc = {{kdc_host}}
kdc = otherkdc.example.com



(Optional) To not have Ambari install the Kerberos client libraries on all
                     hosts, expand the Advanced kerberos-env section and uncheck the “Install
                     OS-specific Kerberos client package(s)” option. You must have the Kerberos
                        client utilities installed on each host.


(Optional) If your Kerberos client libraries are in non-standard path
                     locations, expand the Advanced kerberos-env section and adjust the
                     “Executable Search Paths” option.


(Optional) If your KDC has a password policy, expand the Advanced
                        kerberos-env section and adjust the Password options.


(Optional) Ambari will test your Kerberos settings by generating a test
                     principal and authenticating with that principal. To customize the test
                     principal name that Ambari will use, expand the Advanced kerberos-env
                     section and adjust the Test Kerberos Principal value. By default, the
                     test principal name is a combination of cluster name and date
                        (${cluster_name}-${short_date}). This test principal will be
                        deleted after the test is complete.


(Optional) If you need to customize the attributes for the principals Ambari
                     will create, when using Active Directory, see “Customizing the Attribute
                        Template” for more information. When using MIT KDC, you can pass
                        Principal Attributes options in the Advanced kerberos-env
                     section. For example, you can set options related to pre-auth or max. renew
                     life by passing:
-requires_preauth -maxrenewlife "7 days"



Proceed with the install.

Ambari will install Kerberos clients on the hosts and test access to the KDC by
               testing that Ambari can create a principal, generate a keytab and distribute that
               keytab.

Customize the Kerberos identities used by Hadoop and proceed to kerberize the
               cluster.
On the Configure Identities step, be sure to review the principal names,
               particularly the Ambari Principals on the General tab. These principal
               names, by default, append the name of the cluster to each of the Ambari principals.
               You can leave this as default or adjust these by removing the
               "-${cluster-name}" from principal name string. For example, if your cluster is
               named HDP and your realm is EXAMPLE.COM, the hdfs principal will be created as
               hdfs-HDP@EXAMPLE.COM.

Confirm your configuration. You can optionally download a CSV file of the
               principals and keytabs that Ambari will automatically create.

Click Next to start the process.

After principals have been created and keytabs have been generated and distributed,
               Ambari updates the cluster configurations, then starts and tests the Services in the
               cluster.

Exit the wizard when complete.

Ambari Server communicates with components in the cluster, and now with Kerberos
               setup, you need to make sure Ambari Server is setup for Kerberos. As part of the
               automated Kerberos setup process, Ambari Server has been given a keytab and setup is
               performed. All you need to do is restart Ambari Server for that to take effect.
               Therefore, restart Ambari Server at this time: ambari-server
               restart.


Parent topic: Enable Kerberos