Materialized viewsCloudera Docs
Materialized views
A materialized view is a Hive-managed database object that can be queried by Hive or Impala users. The materialized view holds a
  query result you can use to speed up the execution of a query workload. If your queries are
  repetitive, you can reduce latency and resource consumption by using materialized views. You
  create materialized views to optimize your queries automatically.
Using a materialized view, the optimizer can compare old and new tables, rewrite queries to
   accelerate processing, and manage maintenance of the materialized view when data updates occur.
   The optimizer can use a materialized view to fully or partially rewrite projections, filters,
   joins, and aggregations.
  When you enable BI mode to use Apache DataSketches approximations, a materialized view automatically calls DataSketches for some types of operations.
You can perform the following materialized view operations:

Create a materialized view of queries or subqueries
Drop a materialized view
Show materialized views
Describe a materialized view
Enable or disable query rewriting based on a materialized view
Globally enable or disable rewriting based on any materialized view
Use partitioning to improve the performance of materialized views


Creating and using a materialized viewYou can create a materialized view of a query to calculate and store results of an         expensive operation, such as a particular join, on a managed, ACID table that you repeatedly         run. When you issue queries specified by that materialized view, the optimizer rewrites the         query based on it. This action saves reprocessing. Query performance improves. Materialized view commandsThe syntax and examples of materialized view commands provide details for using   materialized views in Unified Analytics.Materialized view recommendations introductionMaterialized views can improve query performance greatly, but deciding which query         results to materialize is difficult. You can use the materialized view recommender         command-line interface to help you decide which query results to materialize. Using the recommender in local modeYou can use the recommender on a local computer for learning and testing. You can use a   Mac laptop, for example. First, from  a Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Virtual Warehouse that   enables Unified Analytics, you download software that runs a mini HiveServer in local mode. Next,   you provide a set of queries or explain plans to the recommender. Finally, you execute the   Workload Insights (wi) script to get pseudo-recommendations.