Managing query rewritesCloudera Docs
Managing query rewrites
After changes to base tables, the data in a materialized view is stale. You need to
        know how to prevent the SQL optimizer from rewriting queries in this situation. If you want
        a query executed without regard to a materialized view, for example to measure the execution
        time difference, you can disable rewriting and then enable it again. 

As administrator, you can globally enable or disable all query rewrites based on
                materialized views. By default, the optimizer rewrites a query based on a
                materialized view. 
DWAdmin


Disable rewriting of a query based on a materialized view named mv1 in the
                    default database.

ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW default.mv1 DISABLE REWRITE;


Enable rewriting of a query based on materialized view mv1.

ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW default.mv1 ENABLE REWRITE;


Globally enable rewriting of queries based on materialized views by setting a
                    global property.

SET hive.materializedview.rewriting=true;              



Parent topic: Creating and using a materialized view
Purposely using a stale materialized view

 When materialized view data becomes stale, or when the optimizer cannot
                determine the data freshness, which is the case if you use external tables, you can
                use the materialized view by performing these tasks:
Schedule the materialized view for rebuilding. For example, schedule a
                        rebuild to occur every x minutes.
Adjust the rewriting time window to use stale or possibly stale data for a
                        period of time. For example, schedule the window within which to use stale
                        data for x + y minutes.


Create a scheduled query to invoke the rebuild statement every 10
                        minutes.

CREATE SCHEDULED QUERY scheduled_rebuild
EVERY 10 MINUTES AS
ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW mv_recently_hired REBUILD; 


Define the window of time for using stale data.
SET hive.materializedview.rewriting.time.window=10min;                



