Adding file system credentials to an Oozie workflowCloudera Docs
Adding file system credentials to an Oozie workflow 
Oozie has to use its Kerberos credentials to obtain delegation
            tokens on behalf of the user from the services. You must add additional
        configurations in the Oozie workflow for it to obtain this delegation token.


Credentials for token delegationA secure cluster requires the Oozie actions to be authenticated; typically using         Kerberos. However, due to the way that Oozie runs actions, Kerberos credentials are not         available to them. Some actions require communication to an external service like HCatalog,         HBase, and Hive or a secure file system like Amazon S3. For these situations, Oozie has to         use its Kerberos credentials to obtain delegation tokens which allows Oozie to access the         external service or file system.File System CredentialsTo allow Oozie to access S3, ABFS, and other filesystems, it has to request a         delegation token to obtain credentials. Although HUE supports only the built-in credentials         (see Hue             limitation)this can be done through properties. There are three options to         set file system credentials for an Oozie workflow or action which are resulting the same.         You can choose any of them based on your current usage and preference.Setting file system credentials for Oozie through hadoop properties using Hue EditorThis option allows you to configure additional Oozie credentials with configuration         properties. The following example shows how to set up an Oozie workflow with a shell action         which uses additional file system credentials.Setting default credentials using Cloudera ManagerIn scenarios where you need to set a credential for every action of every workflow,         you can set the credential definitions and its usages using Cloudera Manager. You can also         set these as the default configurations.Advanced settings: Overriding default configurationsYou can override the default value set using Cloudera Manager, if required. For         example, you have five different actions in the workflow and four of them use S3 buckets and         one use ABFS. In this case, the S3 can be set as a default credential and can be overridden         in only that one action to have a different value. Modifying the workflow file manuallyYou can modify or add the "<credentials>...</credentials>"         block at the beginning of the Oozie workflow.xml file. Do not remove         any existing credentials from this block, add the new file system credential. Refer the         newly defined credential in the action where it needs to be used. Hue LimitationHue is not capable of adding user defined file system credentials to the Oozie         workflow but can add only built-in credentials as seen in the below figure.