Troubleshooting ImpalaCloudera Docs
Troubleshooting Impala
 This topic describes the general troubleshooting procedures to
    diagnose some of the commonly encountered issues in Impala.


 Symptom 
 Explanation 
 Recommendation 



 Impala takes a long time to start. 
 Impala instances with large numbers of tables, partitions,
              or data files take longer to start because the metadata for these
              objects is broadcast to all impalad nodes and
              cached. 
 Adjust timeout and synchronicity settings. 



 Joins fail to complete. 


 There may be insufficient memory. During a join, data from the
                second, third, and so on sets to be joined is loaded into
                memory. If Impala chooses an inefficient join order or join
                mechanism, the query could exceed the total memory available.
              


 Start by gathering statistics with the COMPUTE
                  STATS statement for each table involved in the join. 
Consider specifying the [SHUFFLE] hint so that
                data from the joined tables is split up between nodes rather
                than broadcast to each node. 
If tuning at the SQL level is not sufficient, add more memory
                to your system or join smaller data sets. 




 Queries return incorrect results. 


 Impala metadata may be outdated after changes are performed in
                Hive. 

 After inserting data, adding a partition, or other operation
              in Hive, refresh the metadata for the table with the
                REFRESH statement.



 Attempts to complete Impala tasks such as executing
                  INSERT SELECT statements fail. The Impala
                logs include notes that files could not be opened due to
                permission denied. 


 This can be the result of permissions issues. For example, you
                could use the Hive shell as the hive user to create a table.
                After creating this table, you could attempt to complete some
                action, such as an INSERT SELECT on the table.
                Because the table was created using one user and the
                  INSERT SELECT is attempted by another, this
                action may fail due to permissions issues. 

Ensure the Impala user has sufficient permissions to the
              table that the Hive user created. 



 Impala fails to start up, with the impalad
                logs referring to errors connecting to the
                  statestored service and attempts to
                re-register. 


 A large number of databases, tables, partitions, and so on can
                require metadata synchronization, particularly on startup, that
                takes longer than the default timeout for the
                  statestore service. 

 Configure the statestore timeout value and
              possibly other settings related to the frequency of
                statestore updates and metadata loading.
            



