Using Breakpad Minidumps for Crash ReportingCloudera Docs
Using Breakpad Minidumps for Crash Reporting
The breakpad project is an open-source framework for crash
    reporting. Impala can use breakpad to record stack
    information and register values when any of the Impala-related daemons crash
    due to an error such as SIGSEGV or unhandled exceptions.
    The dump files are much smaller than traditional core dump files. The dump
    mechanism itself uses very little memory, which improves reliability if the
    crash occurs while the system is low on memory.
Using the Minidump Files for Problem Resolution
You can see in the Impala log files or in the Cloudera Manager charts
        for Impala when crash events occur that generate minidump files. Because
        each restart begins a new log file, the crashed message is always
        at or near the bottom of the log file. (There might be another later
        message if core dumps are also enabled.) 
important If an Impala-related daemon experiences a crash
        due to an out-of-memory condition, it does not generate a
        minidump for that error.

Using the Minidump Files for Problem Resolution
 Typically, you provide minidump files to Cloudera Support as part of
        problem resolution, in the same way that you might provide a core dump.
        The Send Diagnostic Data under the
          Support menu in Cloudera Manager guides you
        through the process of selecting a time period and volume of diagnostic
        data, then collects the data from all hosts and transmits the relevant
        information for you. 


In Cloudera Manager, navigate to Impala
              service > Configuration.In the search field, type
          minidump.Set the following fields to configure breakpad minidumps.

minidump_path: Turn on or off generation
              of the minidump files. By default, a minidump file is generated
                when an Impala-related daemon crashes. 
minidump_path: Specify the Location for
              minidump files. By default, all minidump files are written to
                the following location on the host where a crash occurs:
                    /var/log/impala-minidumps/daemon_nameThe
                minidump files for impalad,
                  catalogd, and
                  statestored are each written to a separate
                directory.  If you specify a relative path for this
                setting, the value is interpreted relative to the default
                  minidump_path directory. 
max_minidumps: Specify the number of
              minidump files. Like any files used for logging or
                troubleshooting, consider limiting the number of minidump files,
                or removing unneeded ones, depending on the amount of free
                storage space on the hosts in the cluster.  Because the
                minidump files are only used for problem resolution, you can
                remove any such files that are not needed to debug current
                issues.The default for this setting is 9. A zero or
                negative value is interpreted as unlimited. 

Click Save Changes and restart
          Impala.To provide minidump files to Cloudera Support as part of
          problem resolution, in Cloudera Manager, navigate to
              Support > Send
              Diagnostic Data and follow the
          steps.


