Configuring Ranger policies for SSBCloudera Docs
Configuring Ranger policies for SSB
You must add SQL Stream Builder (SSB) service user named ssb to the Ranger policies that
    are used by Kafka, Schema Registry, Hive and Kudu to provide access to topics, schemas and
    tables provided by the components.
Before you begin
Install Apache Ranger on your cluster. For more information, see the Production Installation documentation.
Add the required Ranger policies for Flink. For more information, see Configuring Ranger policies for Flink
          documentation.

You can reach the Ranger User Interface through Cloudera Manager:
Go to your cluster in Cloudera Manager.
Select Ranger from the list of services.
Click on Ranger Admin Web UI.You are redirected to the Ranger
      Admin Web UI.


Parent topic: Securing SQL Stream Builder
Adding SSB user to Kafka policies

You must add the ssb user to the following policies:
all-consumergroup
all-topic


Select cm_kafka from the Service Manager home page on the Ranger
     Admin Web UI.You are redirected to the list of Kafka policies page.
Click on the edit button of the all-consumergroup
          policy.
Add the SSB user to the Select User field under the Allow Conditions
     setting.
Click Save.You are redirected to the list of Kafka policies
      page
Click on + More… to check if the SSB user is listed under the Users
     for the consumergroup policy.
Add the ssb user to the following policy with the above steps as well:
all-topic





Adding SSB user to Schema Registry policies

You must add the ssb user to the following policy:
all-schema-group, schema-metadata, schema-branch, schema-version


Select cm_schema-registry from the Service Manager home page on the
     Ranger Admin Web UI.You are redirected to the list of Schema Registry policies
     page.
Click on the edit button of the all-schema-group, schema-metadata,
     schema-branch, schema-version policy.
Add the ssb user to the Select User field under the
          Allow Conditions setting.
Click Save.You are redirected to the list of Schema Registry
      policies page.
Click on + More… to check if the SSB user is listed under the Users
     for the schema-group, schema-metadata, schema-branch, schema-version policy.




Adding SSB user to Hive policies

You must add the ssb user to the following policy:
all-global
all-database, table, column
all-database, table
all-database
all-hiveservice
all-database, udf
all-url


Select cm_hadoopsql from the Service Manager home page on the Ranger
     Admin Web UI.You are redirected to the list of Hadoop SQL policies page.
Click on the edit button of the all-global policy.
Add the SSB user to the Select User field under the Allow Conditions
     setting.
Click Save.You are redirected to the list of Hadoop SQL policies
      page.
Click on + More… to check if the SSB user is listed under the Users
     for the all-global policy.
Add the ssb user to the following policy with the above steps as well:
all-database, table, column
all-database, table
all-database
all-hiveservice
all-database, udf
all-url





Adding SSB user to Kudu policies

You must create a policy to grant access to Kudu tables for the ssb user.

Select cm_kudu from the Service Manager home page on the Ranger Admin
     Web UI.You are redirected to the Create Policy page.
Click on Add New Policy.
Provide a name to the Policy Name field.
Provide a prefix for the Databases you want to add to the policy or
          type * to select all.
Provide a prefix for the table you want to add to the policy or type
            * to select all.
Provide a prefix for the column you want to add to the policy or type
            * to select all.
Add the ssb user to the Select User field under the
          Allow Conditions setting.
Click on the plus icon to Add Permissions to the Permissions
     field.
Click on the specific permissions or Select
      All.
Click on Add at the bottom of the page.You are redirected to the
      list of Kudu policies page where the created policy should be listed.
Click on + More… to check if the ssb user is listed
          under the Users for the created policy.



