Migrating Ranger Usersync and Tagsync role groupsCloudera Docs
Migrating Ranger Usersync and Tagsync role groups
You can use Host Templates to back up the existing usersync
        and tagsync role group configurations and migrate them to a new host.

If the host on which your usersync and tagsync role groups run fails and cannot
                restart, you can migrate the role groups to a new host. You must stop usersync and
                tagsync and delete them from their original host before using them on the new one. Cloudera Manager > Host Templates supports backing up, stopping, deleting, and migrating usersync and
                tagsync role groups from one host to another.


Log in to your cluster as administrator, using Cloudera
                        Manager.

Back up you usersync and tagsync configurations.


On Cloudera Manager > Hosts, select Host Templates.


On Host Templates, click
                                Create.


In Template Name, type a template name.
This names a template in which you back up the usersync and tagsync
                            role group configurations.


On Create New Host Template for Cluster expand
                                Ranger, select Ranger
                                Tagsync and Ranger Usersync, then
                            click Create, as shown in the following:



Figure 1. Creating a role groups template






note We recommend saving the actual config files
                                used on the host for Ranger Usersync and Tagsync. You should verify
                                the configs of the newly added role groups on the new host with the
                                saved, old config files, ranger-ugsync-site.xml
                                and ranger-tagsync-site.xml.




On Cloudera Manager > Ranger > Instances, select the Ranger Tagsync and
                        Ranger Usersync role groups, as shown.





In Actions for Selected, select
                        Stop.

In Actions for Selected, select
                        Delete.

Click Add Role Instances.


In Add Role Instances to Ranger > Assign Roles > Ranger Tagsync x 1 New, click Select Hosts.


Choose a new host to which the Ranger Tagsync role will be added.


In Add Role Instances to Ranger > Assign Roles > Ranger Usersync x 1 New, click Select Hosts.


Choose a new host to which the Ranger Usersync role will be
                            added.


On Review Changes, click Finish. 


On Cloudera Manager > Ranger > Instances, select the Ranger Tagsync and
                                Ranger Usersync role groups on the new
                            host.


With Usersync and Tagsync roles selected on the new host, in Actions, select
                                Start.



Restart Ranger service.

Restart any stale services, if necessary.


Parent topic: Configuring Apache Ranger High Availability