Configure TLS/SSL encryption manually for Apache RangerCloudera Docs
Configure TLS/SSL encryption manually for Apache Ranger 
How to manually configure TLS/SSL encryption for Apache Ranger
Use this procedure when you want to manage your TLS/SSL certificates manually.

In Cloudera Manager, select Ranger, then click the Configuration
                    tab.

Under Category, select Security. 

Set the following properties:

note Ranger supports the following keystore formats:
JKS
BCFKS in a FIPS-enabled cluster. 

Table 1. Apache Ranger TLS/SSL Settings

Configuration Property
Description




Enable TLS/SSL for Ranger Admin
ranger.service.https.attrib.ssl.enabled

Select this option to encrypt communication between
                                        clients and Ranger Admin using Transport Layer Security
                                        (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer (SSL)).



Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                            Location
ranger.https.attrib.keystore.file

The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the
                                        server certificate and private key used for TLS/SSL. Used
                                        when Ranger Admin is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The
                                        keystore must be in JKS or BCFKS format.



Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                            Password
ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.pass

The password for the Ranger Admin JKS keystore
                                        file.



Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
ranger.truststore.file

The location on disk of the truststore used to confirm
                                        the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that Ranger Admin might
                                        connect to. This is used when Ranger Admin is the client in
                                        a TLS/SSL connection. This truststore must contain the
                                        certificate(s) used to sign the connected service(s). If
                                        this parameter is not provided, the default list of known
                                        certificate authorities is used.



Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
ranger.truststore.password

The password for the Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Certificate
                                        truststore file. This password is not required to access the
                                        truststore; therefore, this field is optional. The contents
                                        of truststores are certificates, and certificates are public
                                        information. This password provides optional integrity
                                        checking of the file.



Enable TLS/SSL for Ranger Tagsync

Select this option to encrypt communication between
                                        clients and Ranger Tagsync using Transport Layer Security
                                        (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer (SSL)).



Ranger Tagsync TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                            Location
xasecure.policymgr.clientssl.keystore

The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the
                                        server certificate and private key used for TLS/SSL. Used
                                        when Ranger Tagsync is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The
                                        keystore must be in JKS or BCFKS format.



Ranger Tagsync TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                            Password
xasecure.policymgr.clientssl.keystore.password

The password for the Ranger Tagsync JKS keystore
                                        file.



Ranger Tagsync TLS/SSL Trust Store File
xasecure.policymgr.clientssl.truststore


The location on disk of the trust store, in .jks format,
                                            used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that
                                            Ranger Tagsync might connect to. This trust store must
                                            contain the certificate(s) used to sign the service(s)
                                            connected to. 
Ranger Tagsync connects to Ranger Admin. If Ranger Admin
                                            is SSL enabled, make sure you add a Ranger Admin
                                            certificate in the trust store.
If this parameter is not provided, the default list of
                                            well-known certificate authorities is used instead.




Ranger Tagsync TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
xasecure.policymgr.clientssl.truststore.password

The password for the Ranger Tagsync TLS/SSL Certificate
                                        truststore file. This password is not mandatory to access
                                        the truststore. It is used to check the integrity of the
                                        file; this field is optional. The contents of truststores
                                        are certificates, and certificates are public
                                        information.



Ranger Usersync TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
ranger.usersync.truststore.file


The location on disk of the truststore, in JKS format,
                                            used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that
                                            Ranger Usersync might connect to. This is used when
                                            Ranger Usersync is the client in a TLS/SSL connection.
                                            This truststore must contain the certificate(s) used to
                                            sign the connected service(s).
Ranger Usersync connects to Ranger Admin to sync users
                                            into Ranger. If Ranger Admin is SSL enabled, make sure
                                            you add a Ranger Admin certificate in the trust
                                            store.
If this parameter is not provided, the default list of
                                            known certificate authorities is used.




Ranger Usersync TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
ranger.usersync.truststore.password

The password for the Ranger Usersync TLS/SSL certificate
                                        truststore file. This password is not required to access the
                                        truststore; this field is optional. This password provides
                                        optional integrity checking of the file. The contents of
                                        trust stores are certificates, and certificates are public
                                        information.




In Filters > Search > , type
                        ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.keyalias to set
                    the  Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Keystore File Alias property.

Table 2. Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Setting

Configuration Property
Description




Ranger Admin TLS/SSL Keystore File Alias
ranger.service.https.attrib.keystore.keyalias


The alias used for the Ranger Admin TLS/SSL keystore
                                            file.
If host FQDN is used as an alias while creating a
                                            keystore file, the default placeholder value
                                            {{RANGER_ADMIN_HOST}} is replaced with the host FQDN
                                            where Ranger Admin will be installed in the current
                                            cluster.
The placeholder can be replaced to have a custom alias
                                            used while creating the keystore file.
If using a custom alias which is the same as the host
                                            short name, use {{RANGER_ADMIN_HOST_UQDN}} placeholder
                                            as a value.





Click Save Changes.


