Configuring session inactivity timeout for Ranger Admin Web UICloudera Docs
Configuring session inactivity timeout for Ranger Admin Web UI
How to set a session inactivity timeout value for the Ranger Admin Web
        UI.

Ranger supports session inactivity timeout for the Ranger Admin web UI. User activity
                is monitored when a user logs in to the Ranger Admin web UI. If no user activity
                occurs during the set time period, Ranger Web UI prompts the user to either stay
                logged in or log out. 
If the user chooses Stay Logged In, Ranger continues to use the same browser session
                and the session inactivity monitor resets. If the user chooses either Logout or no
                option, the browser redirects the user to either the Knox logout page (for a public
                cloud deployment) or the Ranger login page (for users who logged in to Ranger
                directly without using a Knox proxy). 
ranger.service.inactivity.timeout has the value -1 second by
                default, which disables the session inactivity timeout.
noteCloudera Manager also hides the Tomcat server timeout
                configuration by default. Refer to the instructions at the bottom of this page for
                those configuration details.
To enable session inactivity timeout and set a timeout value:


In Cloudera Manager > Ranger > Configuration > Search, type session. 

In Session Inactivity Timeout for Ranger Admin: set a
                    positive, integer value for the
                        ranger.service.inactivity.timeout property, then
                    choose a time unit.


For example, setting
                                ranger.service.inactivity.timeout to 30
                            seconds triggers the logout prompt after 30 seconds of inactivity in the
                            Ranger Web UI. Choosing 30 days allows a month of inactivity before a
                            logout prompt displays. 




Click Save Changes
                    (CTRL+S).

Choose Actions > Restart to refresh session inactivity timeout configuration settings.
                



Configuring http session timeout value for Tomcat server
How to set a session timeout value for the UI and API requests from Ranger Admin
            Web UI's Tomcat server.
Ranger allows you to configure an http session timeout
                value for the UI and API requests from Ranger Admin Web UI's Tomcat server. This
                configuration ends the admin user's browser session after a specified duration. To
                set this configuration, use the command line editor to modify the
                    session-timeout parameter in
                    /web.xml.

Login to your Ranger-Admin host.

Enter
                            /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH-[version]/lib/ranger-admin/ews/webapp/WEB-INF/
                        in the command line editor. 

Backup the web.xml file in a safe place before making
                        any changes.

Edit the web.xml file as follows:
#vim web.xml
Locate the value session-timeout =
                                    60.
Change this number to your desired value, in seconds. For example,
                                setting session-timeout =
                                    300seconds sets the session to end after
                                5 minutes.


Save the changes to the web.xml file.

Restart Ranger Service to refresh .



