Logging into the CDP CLI/SDKCloudera Docs
Logging into the CDP CLI/SDK
You can log into the CDP CLI using two different methods. The interactive method
    described in this topic integrates with any SAML-compliant external identity
    provider.

There are two ways to log into the CDP CLI/SDK. The traditional method requires
        generating access credentials (an API access key and private key), then configuring the
          ~/.cdp/credentials file with the key pair. In this method the access
        credentials are permanent until they are removed from the
          ~/.cdp/credentials file. If you prefer to use this method of access, you
        can skip to the following topics: Generating an API access key and
          Configuring CDP client with the API access key. It is possible that this
        traditional login method may be disabled by an administrator, and therefore unavailable to
        some users. 
If you would prefer that user access to the CLI/SDK is shorter-lived, you can use the
        "interactive" method of logging into the CDP CLI/SDK. By default, this login method grants a
        12-hour access key to the CLI/SDK. The access key will time out after one hour of
        inactivity. The interactive method integrates with any SAML-compliant external identity
        provider. To set up the interactive method of logging into the CLI/SDK, follow the steps
        below.



Determine which identity provider you want to use for login. If you do not specify an
          IdP in the login command, the login command will use your default IdP, which is typically
          the oldest identity provider configured under User
              Management > Identity Providers. 
Verify that the identity provider you are using has been configured for SAML-based sign
          on.
Take note of your CDP tenant/account ID. To find it, click your user name in the bottom
          left hand navigation menu, select Profile, and then copy the
            Tenant ID field.



Use the following command to login to the CDP CLI:

cdp login --account-id <tenant-account-id> --identity-provider <idp-name>



--account-id is required unless it is configured in the
                ~/.cdp/config  file (account_id). 
--identity-provider is optional, but if not specified, the command
              uses the default IdP. Give the name or the CRN of the desired IdP as listed in
              the details page for the IdP, which you can access from User
                  Management > Identity
              Providers.

Running the command sends a request to the specified IdP, which opens the
          login page in a browser window.Login to the IdP using your company credentials.The browser window will
          inform you when it is safe to close the window. The access key that is generated by the
          command is saved to the ~/.cdp/credentials file. You can run a test
          command in the CLI to verify that you are successfully logged in. If you receive an
          authentication error, login in again.

Related informationConfiguring CDP clientGenerating an API access key