Using Free-text SearchCloudera Docs
Using Free-text Search
Apache Atlas builds a ranked index of metadata values so you can
      search for values across all metadata.
The search field in the top of the dashboard lets you search for
      entities, classifications, or terms by entering any full or partial text
      to match any entity metadata values. Atlas searches all metadata fields
      that have string data types, so you can use this search tool to find
      entities by their labels, descriptions, locations, or other metadata.

Searches are case insensitive. Searches automatically append the
      asterisk (*) wildcard to the search term or terms so that the search
      behavior is to find partial strings anywhere they occur in the metadata
      value. The following single and double characters have special
      meaning:+ - && || ! ( ) { } [ ] ^ " ~ * ? : \
If your search string includes one of these characters, surround the
      string in double quotation marks or escape the special character with a
      backslash.
You can see that the search terms you use in the search at the top of the
      dashboard are also inserted into the free text search field in the left
      Search panel: you can combine the free text search with other selections
      to narrow the search results. The combination acts as an “AND” with other
      search criteria.
Search result ordering: The search results are ranked by how
      well they match the search terms, with entities that match on more than
      one metadata value being ranked higher. 
Different metadata have different scores, where the highest scoring
          metadata fields are entity names, including Kafka topic names.
          Descriptions, users/owners, query text, and comments rank next.
          Locations, namespaces, domains, etc. come next. Search results are not
          ordered in any specific way among results that have the same search
          ranking.
Suggestions: As you enter your search text, you see the five
      highest-ranked matching items and as many as five suggestions. 
The matching
          items are ranked in the same way as the general search results,
          case-sensitive (at the moment) terms that “contain” the search terms; If there are
          more than five search results with the same search ranking, the five
          shown are randomly ordered from the highest scoring results.
The suggested items are chosen from search results that
          match with a “starts with” behavior. 

