Configuring rolling restart checksCloudera Docs
Configuring rolling restart checks
You can configure Cloudera Manager to perform different types of checks on Kafka
    brokers during a rolling restart. The type of check performed by Cloudera Manager is configured
    with the Cluster Health Guarantee During Rolling Restart property. The
    property has multiple settings, each setting corresponds to a different type of
    check.

The following steps walk you through the basic configuration method of how you can
        enable and configure rolling restart checks. 


If your Kafka service is configured to use custom listeners, complete Configuring the client configuration used for rolling
          restart checks  before continuing with this task.

In Cloudera Manager, select the Kafka service. Go to Configuration.Find and configure the Cluster Health Guarantee During Rolling
            Restart property. Select one of the available options. Click the
            ? icon next to the property's name to reveal a full description
          of each option and the check that they correspond to. Optional: Fine-tune rolling restart check behaviour by configuring the
          following properties: 
Maximum Allowed Runtime For Kafka Broker Rolling Restart
                Check
Retry Interval For Kafka Broker Rolling Restart Check
Default API Timeout For Kafka Topics Client Used In Kafka Broker Rolling
                Restart Check
These properties allow you to configure different interval and timeout values related
          to the rolling restart check. Configure these properties based on your cluster and
          requirements.Click Save Changes.Restart the Kafka service.
Rolling restart checks are configured and enabled. During any subsequent rolling
      restarts, Cloudera Manager executes the type of check you configured. 
If you make any configuration changes related to broker connectivity (security,
      listeners, port, bootstrap) after rolling restart checks are enabled, you must disable rolling
      restart checks for the first restart after the change was made. Otherwise, the check and the
      rolling restart might fail. Following the initial restart, you can re-enable rolling restart
      checks.

Parent topic: Rolling restart checks