JBOD setupCloudera Docs
JBOD setup
Learn how to set up JBOD in your Kafka environment.

Consider the following before using JBOD support in Kafka:
Manual operation and administration: Monitoring offline directories and JBOD
            related metrics is done through Cloudera Manager. However, identifying failed disks and
            rebalancing partitions between disks is done manually. 
Manual load balancing between disks: Unlike with RAID-10, JBOD does not
            automatically distribute data across disks. The process is fully manual.

To provide robust JBOD support in Kafka, changes in the Kafka protocol have been made. When
        performing an upgrade to a new version of Kafka, make sure that you follow the recommended
        rolling upgrade process. 
For more information regarding the JBOD related Kafka protocol changes, see KIP-112 and
        KIP-113. 


Mount the required number of disks on your system.
In Cloudera Manager, set up log directories for all Kafka brokers:
Go to the Kafka service, select Instances and select
              the broker.
Go to Configuration and
              find the Data Directories
              property.
Modify the path of the log directories so that they correspond with the
              newly mounted disks. 
noteDepending on your, setup you may need to add or remove multiple data
                directories. 

Enter a Reason for change, and then click
                Save Changes to commit the changes.
Go to the Kafka service and select
        Configuration.Find and configure the following properties depending on your system and use
          case.

Number of I/O Threads
Number of Network Threads
Number of Replica Fetchers
Minimum Number of Replicas in ISR

Set replication factor to at least 3. 
importantIf you set replication factor to less than 3, your data will be at
            risk. In addition, in case of a disk failure, disk maintenance cannot be carried out
            without system downtime.
Restart the service:
Return to the home page by clicking hte Cloudera Manager
            logo.
Go to the Kafka service and select 
                  Actions >  Rolling
            Restart
Check the Restart roles with stale configurations
                only checkbox and click Rolling
            restart.
Click Close when the restart has
            finished.

JBOD disks are set up in your Kafka environment.

Related informationKIP-112KIP-113Parent topic: JBOD