MetricsCloudera Docs
Metrics
Learn about Kafka metrics and how to view them.Kafka uses Yammer metrics to record internal performance measurements. The metrics are
      exposed via Java Management Extensions (JMX) and can be read with a JMX console. Metrics CategoriesThere are metrics available in the various components
        of Kafka. In addition, there are some metrics specific to how Cloudera Manager and Kafka
        interact. This table has pointers to both the Apache Kafka metrics names and the Cloudera
        Manager metric names.Table 1. Metrics by Category

Category
Cloudera Manager Metrics Doc
Apache Kafka Metrics Doc




Cloudera Manager
Kafka Service

Base Metrics




Broker
Broker Metrics, Broker Topic Metrics, Replica Metrics, Broker Topic Partition Metrics
Broker



Common
Producer/Consumer



Client
Client-to-Broker



Producer
Producer Metrics

Producer
Producer Sender



Consumer
Consumer Group Metrics

Consumer Group
Consumer Fetch



Mirror Maker

Mirror Maker Metrics

Same as Producer or Consumer tables


Note the following about  Cloudera Manager metrics:
Broker Topic Partitions Metrics: 
Required for Streams Messaging Manager. These metrics have to be specifically
              enabled within the host's configuration. 

Producer Metrics: 
Required for Streams Messaging Manager. These metrics have to be specifically
              enabled within Kafka's configuration and are different from the metrics available on
              client instances. 

Consumer Groups Metrics
Generated by and required for Streams Messaging Manager. These metrics are different
              from the metrics available on client instances.
Viewing Metrics
Cloudera Manager records most of these metrics and makes them available via Chart Builder. 
Because Cloudera Manager cannot track metrics on any clients (that is, producer or
        consumer), you may wish to use an alternative JMX console program to check metrics. There
        are several JMX console options, for example:

JConsole, which comes bundled with the JDK.
VisualVM, with the MBeans plugin.  


Related informationJConsole DocumentationVisualVM HomepageBuilding Cloudera Manager charts with Kafka metricsA collection query examples to build Kafka metrics charts within Cloudera     Manager.Essential metrics to monitorCloudera Manager collects a high number of performance metrics for the Kafka services     running on your clusters. Certain metrics should be monitored in any Kafka deployment as they     can help you to improve the stability and performance of your Kafka deployment.