Scaling Kafka brokersCloudera Docs
Scaling Kafka brokers
Learn how to scale the number of Kafka brokers in a CDP Private Cloud Base
  cluster.
The number of Kafka brokers provisioned in a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster can be scaled.
   Scaling is done by first configuring the Kafka and Cruise Control services and then adding or
   removing (decommission and delete) Kafka Broker role instances in the cluster. After broker roles
   are added or removed, Cruise Control automatically detects the change and rebalances partitions
   between brokers.


Configuring Kafka and Cruise Control for scaling
Learn how to configure Kafka and Cruise Control to be able to scale a Kafka
        cluster.

Before you can scale a Kafka cluster, configuring both the Kafka and Cruise Control
                service is required:
For the Kafka service, you must ensure that Enable Kafka
                            Decommission is selected.
For the Cruise Control service, you must enable self healing and configure
                        Cruise Control to use specific anomaly notifier and anomaly finder
                        classes.



Configure Kafka.


In Cloudera Manager, select the Kafka
                            service.


Go to Configuration.


Find and select the Enable Kafka Decommission
                            property.



Configure Cruise Control.


In Cloudera Manager, select the Cruise Control
                            service.


Go to Configuration.


Find and select the Self Healing Enabled
                            property.


Find the Anomaly Notifier Class property.


Replace the currently configured class with the following:

com.linkedin.kafka.cruisecontrol.detector.notifier.SelfHealingNotifier



Find the Metric Anomaly Finder Class
                            property.


Add the following class to the configuration:

com.cloudera.kafka.cruisecontrol.detector.EmptyBrokerAnomalyFinder




Restart both the Kafka and Cruise Control service.

After configuring Kafka and Cruise Control, you can
            upscale or downscale the Kafka clusters.


Scaling up Kafka brokers
Learn how you can upscale Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster.

The Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster can be upscaled by adding new Kafka
                broker instances to your cluster. The newly added Kafka broker is automatically
                detected by Cruise Control, a rebalance is triggered once they become available, and
                partitions are moved to the new broker.



Ensure that the cluster, its hosts, and all its services are healthy.
Ensure that the Kafka brokers are commissioned and running.
Ensure that the Cruise Control service is running.
Ensure that Kafka and Cruise Control is configured for scaling. For more
                    information, see Configuring Kafka and Cruise Control for
                        scaling.
Ensure that one or more hosts are available that do not have a Kafka Broker role
                    deployed on them. For more information on how to add a new host, see Adding a Host to a Cluster.



In Cloudera Manager, select the Kafka service.

Go to Instances. 

Click Add Role Instances.

Click Select hosts>Custom… found under Kafka broker.

noteYou can also select Select hosts>All Hosts if you want to add role instances to all available
                        hosts.


Select one or more hosts and click OK.

Click Continue.

Optional: Review and configure the properties available on the Review
                        Changes page based on your cluster and requirements.

Click Finish.

Select the newly added role instances.

Click Actions for Selected>Start.

Review the list of instances that will be started and click
                        Start.

Restart the Kafka service.

After the Kafka broker is added to your cluster, Cruise Control automatically
            detects it and starts the partition reassignment process.


Scaling down Kafka brokers
Learn how you can downscale Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster.

The Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster can be downscaled by decommissioning
                one or more Kafka broker role instances. Data and partitions of the decommissioned
                broker are automatically moved to other Kafka brokers. The decommissioned broker
                instances can be deleted after the downscale process is finished.



Ensure that the cluster, its hosts, and all its services are healthy.
Ensure that the Kafka brokers are commissioned and running.
Ensure that the Cruise Control service is running.
Ensure that Kafka and Cruise Control is configured for scaling. For more
                    information, see Configuring Kafka and Cruise Control for
                        scaling.
Do not restart Kafka or Cruise Control during a downscale operation.
Do not create new partitions during a downscale operation.



In Cloudera Manager, select the Kafka service.

Go to Instances. 

Select the Kafka broker roles you want to decommission.

Click Actions for Selected>Decommission.

Review the list of brokers that will be decommissioned and click
                        Decommission.

Wait until the decommission process is finished and click
                        Close.

Restart the Kafka service.

Cruise Control automatically decommissions the Kafka broker and reassigns the
            partitions to the other brokers.
After the broker is decommissioned, you can fully remove
            the role instance from the cluster by deleting it.
Go to Kafka>Instances.
Select the instances that you want to delete.
Click Actions for Selected>Delete.
importantDo not delete broker role instances if you plan on
                recommissioning them later on.

