Creating a database using CODCloudera Docs
Creating a database using COD
You can create an operational database in your registered environment using Cloudera
        Operational Database (COD).

Required role: You must be logged into the COD as an
                    ODAdmin.









Understand CDP environment and user management. For more information, see
                            User Management and CDP Environments
                        topics.
Set up an environment that gives you credential and cloud storage.
Ensure you are authorized to create a database.




In the COD web interface, click Create Database.

Select the environment from the list in which you want to have the
                    database.

Provide a name for the database in the Database Name
                    field.

Select the storage type as Cloud Storage or
                        HDFS.


The storage type HDFS is equivalent to using
                                --use-hdfs option on CDP CLI while creating an
                            operational database.
The storage type Cloud Storage, which resembles
                            block storage, is equivalent to using --no-use-hdfs
                            option on CDP CLI while creating an operational database.

By default, Cloud Storage is selected.
noteThe storage type Cloud
                            Storage is available on GCP environments only when you have
                        the COD_ON_GCS entitlement.


Define a scale for your database using a predefined Data Lake template.
The template helps you to structure your database automatically thereby saving
                    your time and cost. COD creates the predefined number of LITE or HEAVY gateway
                    and master nodes, a set of worker nodes, and also adds additional functionalists
                    into the new database. In case you need to modify the default number of nodes
                    defined in the template, you can do so after the database creation.The
                        available templates are Micro Duty, Light
                            Duty, and Heavy Duty. By default,
                            Light Duty is selected.You can create a
                        small database using the Micro Duty template, which
                        consists of one Gateway node and one Worker node. In a Micro database, the
                        Gateway node carries out the processes involved in the Master or Leader
                        nodes. You can consider using a Micro cluster for your testing and
                        development purposes.Alternatively, you can use the following command
                        using CDP CLI to create an operational database of Micro
                            Duty scale type.cdp opdb create-database
                            --environment-name
<environment_name>
--database-name
<database_name>
---scale-type
MICROFor
                        example,cdp opdb create-database --environment-name cod7215 --database-name testenv --scale-type MICRO


Click Create Database.

Information page is displayed that shows the status of the database. Your new
            database is ready to be used once its status becomes Available.noteYour database
                starts with a fixed size, but it will scale up and down as the workload applied to
                the database changes. For more information, see Auto Scaling
                topic.

Related informationCOD Edge Node OverviewCOD User ManagementCDP EnvironmentsCOD Auto ScalingCOD CLI command reference GitHub repositoryCDP CLI BETA command reference GitHub repositoryCreating a database using CDP CLIYou can create an operational database in your registered environment using Cloudera Operational Database (COD) CLI Beta.