Advanced erasure coding configurationCloudera Docs
Advanced erasure coding configuration
You can customize the behavior of EC through a combination of the hdfs
      ec subcommand and the Cloudera Manager Admin
    Console.
This procedure provides information about configuring certain properties for EC with
        the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.For information about the
        hdfs ec see Erasure coding CLI command.Select Clusters and choose the HDFS cluster
          you want to configure.Navigate to the Configuration tab and select
          the Erasure Coding category.Configure the advanced EC properties.


DataNode Striped Read Timeout: The timeout for striped reads
              during background data reconstruction in milliseconds.
DataNode Striped Read Threads: The number of threads that a
              DataNode can use during background data reconstruction.
Erasure Coding Reconstruction Weight: The relative weight of
              resources used by EC for data recovery. The number of blocks that must be read is
              based on the EC policy used. For example, RS-6-3-1024k requires six blocks to be read.
              Replication only requires one block to be read. Higher values result in fewer
              reconstruction tasks being able to run concurrently. The number of blocks required to
              be read to recover data is multiplied by this weight to determine the total weight of
              the recovery task. The total weight of the recovery task counts against the limit set
              with the dfs.namenode.replication.max-streams property.
Fallback Erasure Coding Policy: The fallback Erasure Coding
              policy that HDFS uses if no policy is specified when you run the
                -setPolicy command.noteYou must disable erasure coding in small
                clusters to prevent potential data loss. If the cluster falls back to an Erasure
                Coding policy value that requires a greater number of DataNodes or racks than
                available, this situation could result in a potential data loss. As a result, the
                Erasure Coding Policy Verification Test returns "Concerning" health. To prevent the
                issue, set the value of the fallback Erasure Coding policy to No Default
                  Erasure Coding Policy. In addition, you must disable all the erasure
                coding policies that are enabled on the cluster.


Parent topic: Erasure coding overview