Add Streams Replication Manager to an existing clusterCloudera Docs
Add Streams Replication Manager to an existing cluster 
Streams Replication Manager (SRM) can be installed on an existing cluster managed by
    Cloudera Manager. To do this, you need to define your external clusters using Kafka credentials,
    add SRM to the cluster, and configure a number of mandatory properties related to clusters,
    replications, and role targets.

Streams Replication Manager is comprised of three roles:
Streams Replication Manager Driver role: This role is responsible for
            connecting to the specified clusters and performing replication between them. The driver
            can be installed on one or more hosts.
Streams Replication Manager Service role: This role consist of a REST API and a
            Kafka Streams application to aggregate and expose cluster, topic and consumer group
            metrics. The service can be installed on or more hosts.
Streams Replication Manager Gateway role: This role can be used to deploy SRM
            client configuration on hosts that do not have a Driver or Service role running on
            them.
noteDo not confuse Streams Replication Manager, which is a service managed by
          Cloudera Manager, with the Streams Replication Manager Service role, which is a role
          within Streams Replication Manager. You can install Streams Replication Manager
        independent of the clusters that replication is happening between.
The following steps walk you through the process of adding Streams Replication Manager to
        your cluster. The configuration examples on this page are simple examples that are meant to
        demonstrate the type of information that you have to enter. These steps and examples do not
        go into detail of how security is configured or present all configuration options. For
        additional information regarding the steps presented in this document, SRM security, and SRM
        configuration in general, see the Related information section at the bottom of
        this page 




If you are planning on replicating data to or from a Kafka service running in either a
            CDH 5.x or 6.x cluster and you are using Sentry for authorization, make sure that the
               streamsrepmgr user is added to the Kafka Super
              users property. You can find the  Super users
            property by going to Kafka service > Configuration. Do this on all CDH 5.x or 6.x clusters where data replication will
            happen.

If you are planning on replicating data to or from a Kafka service running in Runtime
          7.x and you are using Ranger for authorization, make sure that the
            streamsrepmgr user has all required permissions assigned to it in
          Ranger. Do this on all Runtime 7.x clusters where data replication will happen.


In Cloudera Manager, go to
              Administration >  > External
              Accounts.Go to the Kafka Credentials tab. 
The Kafka Credentials tab enables you to create, configure, and
            manage Kafka credentials. A Kafka credential is an item that contains the connection
            properties required by SRM to establish a connection with a cluster. You can think of a
            Kafka credential as the definition of a single cluster. On this tab you will create a
            credential for each external cluster taking part in the replication process.
Create and configure Kafka credentials for the external clusters:
Repeat this step for all external clusters.

Click Add Kafka credentials.
Configure the Kafka credential:
The security configuration of the external cluster determines which of the
                available properties you must set. At minimum, the following properties must be set: 
Name
Bootstrap servers
Security protocol
For example, assume that you have two clusters US-West and US-East. The SRM
                service you are configuring is located on US-West. This means that, US-East is an
                external cluster and US-West is co-located. In a case like this you would have to
                specify US-East with a Kafka credential.
                Name=useast
Bootstrap servers=useast-1.cloudera.com:9092, useast-2.cloudera.com:9092, useast-3.cloudera.com:9092
Security protocol=PLAINTEXT

noteClick the i icon next to
          each property in Cloudera Manager to reveal additional information about each
          property.

Click Add.If credential creation is
              successful, a new entry corresponding to the Kafka credential you specified appears on
              the page.

From the Cloudera Manager Home page, select the drop-down to the
          right of your cluster, and select Add a Service.

Select Streams Replication Manager from the list of services and click
            Continue. 
Select dependenciesSelect the option that has the Kafka service listed
          as an optional dependency.
Assign role instances to hosts: 
Select at least 2 hosts for both the Driver and the Service role if you want to enable
          high availability mode for SRM.


Click the field below SRM Driver to display a dialog box
              containing a list of hosts.


Select 1 or more hosts that the SRM Driver should be
              assigned to and click Ok.


Click the field below SRM Service to display a dialog box
              containing a list of hosts.


Select 1 or more host that the SRM Service should be
              assigned to and click Ok.

Click the field below SRM Gateway to display a dialog
              box containing a list of hosts.
Select 1 or more hosts that the SRM Gateway role
              should be assigned to and click Ok.


Click Continue.
Add the clusters defined with Kafka credentials to SRM’s configuration:
Find and configure the External Kafka Accounts
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines for each Kafka credential you
              created.
Add the names of all Kafka credentials.Each Kafka credential
              must be added to a new line. For
            example:useast
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Co-located Kafka
            Cluster Alias property.The alias you configure represents the
          co-located cluster. Enter an alias that is unique and easily identifiable. For
          example:uswestFind and configure the Streams Replication Manager Cluster
            alias property.Add all cluster aliases. This includes aliases
          present in the External Kafka Accounts and Streams
            Replication Manager Co-located Kafka Cluster Alias properties. Delimit the
          aliases with commas. For example:useast, uswestAdd and enable replications:
Find the Streams Replication Manager's Replication
                Configs property.
Click the add button and add new lines for each unique replication you want
              to add and enable.
Add and enable your replications. For
              example:uswest->useast.enabled=true
useast->uswest.enabled=true


Specify the Streams Replication Manager Service role target cluster:


Find the Streams Replication Manager Service Target Cluster
              property. 


Add the target cluster alias. For example: 

uswest




The
            target cluster is where the Service role gathers replication information from. Cloudera
            recommends that you deploy the Service role on every cluster and configure each instance
            of the Service role to target the cluster that it is running on.

Optional: 
Specify the Streams Replication Manager Driver role target clusters:

Find the Streams
                Replication Manager Driver Target Cluster property.

Add the cluster aliases that you want
              the driver role to target. For
              example:

uswest,useast




You can use the Streams Replication Manager Driver Target
              Cluster property to specify a subset of clusters that the driver should
            target or in other words write data to. When this property is left empty (default) the
            driver will read from and write to all clusters added to SRMs configuration. When this
            property is set, the driver will collect data from all clusters, but will only write to
            the clusters specified in this property. However, in order for monitoring to function
            correctly, this property has to contain the target as well as source clusters. As a
            result, custom configuration of this property is considered an advanced configuration
            practice, which is only viable in complex replication scenarios. Cloudera recommends
            that you either leave this property empty or add all clusters taking part in the
            replication. 

Optional: 
Configure properties not
          exposed in Cloudera Manager:
 SRM accepts a number of additional configuration properties that are not available in
          Cloudera Manager. Depending on your requirements you may need to configure these
          properties as well. You can find a comprehensive list of these properties in
            Configuration Properties Reference for Properties not Available in Cloudera
            Manager. 

Find the Streams Replication
                Manager's Replication Configs property.
Click the add button and add
              new lines for each additional property you want to configure.
Add configuration propertiesFor
              example:offset.flush.timeout.ms=30000

Optional: 
Depending on your requirement, review and configure other properties available on this
          page.

Click Continue and wait until the process is finished

Click Continue then click Finish.
        Start SRM:

On the Cloudera Manager Home page, select the drop-down to the right of
              Streams Replication Manager, and select Start.
Click Startand wait until the process is
              finished.
Click Close.



Replicating data to or from the specified clusters is now possible.
The SRM service REST API Swagger UI is available at one of the following addresses:

http://<srm-service-host>:<srm-service-port/swagger


https://<srm-service-host>:<srm-service-port/swagger







Use the srm-control tool to kick off replication by adding topics or
          groups to the allowlist.
If you plan to use Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) to monitor Kafka cluster
          replications, configure SMM to communicate with Streams Replication Manager (SRM). For
          information, see Configuring SMM for Monitoring SRM Replications.



Related informationConfiguration examplessrm-controlConfiguration Properties Reference for Properties not Available in Cloudera           ManagerDefining and adding clusters for replicationConfiguring the driver role target clustersConfiguring the service role target clusterConfiguring properties not exposed in Cloudera ManagerConfiguring replicationsConfiguring SMM for Monitoring SRM Replications