Bidirectional replication example of two active clustersCloudera Docs
Bidirectional replication example of two active clusters
Review the bidirectional replication example to learn how you can configure and start
    replication with Streams Replication Manager in a deployment with two active clusters configured
    with bidirectional replication.

In a typical scenario, you may have two active Kafka clusters within the same region but in
        separate availability zones. With bidirectional replication, clients can connect to either
        cluster in case one is temporarily unavailable.
This example demonstrates the steps required to configure the deployment shown below.
        Additionally, it also provides example commands to start replication between clusters.
Figure 1. Bidirectional Replication of Active Clusters





The following list of steps assume that both clusters are unsecured.
The following list of steps assume that the Streams Replication Manager Service role is
          running on all Kafka broker hosts and is targeting its co-located cluster (the cluster it
          is running in).
Steps 1 through 6 must be carried out on all clusters for all SRM services. The steps
          highlight when the configuration differs from cluster to cluster or if it is identical on
          all clusters.


Define external clusters:
In Cloudera Manager, go to
                  Administration > External
                  Accounts.
Go to the Kafka Credentials tab. On this
              tab you will create a credential for each external cluster taking part in the
              replication process.
Click Add Kafka credentials.
Configure the Kafka credential:On the primary cluster you have
              to add a credential that defines secondary. For
              example:Name=secondary
Bootstrap servers=secondary-1.cloudera.com:9092, secondary-2.cloudera.com:9092, secondary-3.cloudera.com:9092
Security protocol=PLAINTEXT
On
              the secondary cluster you have to add a credential that defines primary. For
              example:Name=primary
Bootstrap servers=primary-1.cloudera.com:9092, primary-2.cloudera.com:9092, primary-3.cloudera.com:9092
Security protocol=PLAINTEXT

Click Add.If credential creation is
              successful, a new entry corresponding to the Kafka credential you specified appears on
              the page.
Define the co-located Kafka cluster:
In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters and select the
              Streams Replication Manager service.
Go to Configuration.
Find and enable the Kafka Service
            property.
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Co-located
                Kafka Cluster Alias property.The alias you configure
              represents the co-located cluster. Enter an alias that is unique and easily
              identifiable. On the primary cluster:primaryOn the secondary
              cluster:secondary
Add the clusters defined with Kafka credentials to SRM’s configuration:
Find and configure the External Kafka Accounts
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines for each Kafka credential you
              created.
Add the names of all Kafka credentials.Each Kafka credential
              must be added to a new line. On the primary cluster:secondaryOn
              the secondary cluster:primary
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Cluster
            alias property.Add all cluster aliases to this property. This
          includes the aliases present in both the External Kafka Accounts and Streams
            Replication Manager Co-located Kafka Cluster Alias properties. Delimit the aliases
          with commas. In the case of this example the configuration is identical on both
          clusters:primary, seconadryConfigure Driver role target clusters:
Find the Streams
                Replication Manager Driver Target Cluster property.
Add the cluster aliases that you want the driver role to target.
              In the case of this example, each Driver should target its co-located
              cluster. On the primary cluster:primaryOn the secondary
              cluster:secondary
Add and enable replications:
Find the Streams Replication Manager's Replication
                Configs property.
Click the add button and add new lines for each unique replication you want
              to add and enable.
Add and enable your replications. 
In the case of this example, the configuration will be identical on both
                clusters:
primary->secondary.enabled=true
secondary->primary.enabled=true



Replicate data between clusters with the following commands:

srm-control topics --source primary --target secondary --add ".*"

srm-control topics --source secondary --target primary --add ".*"



Parent topic: Configuration examples