Cross data center replication example of multiple clustersCloudera Docs
Cross data center replication example of multiple clusters
Review the cross data center replication example to understand how you can configure
    and start replication with Streams Replication Manager in a deployment with three data centers
    that each have two Kafka clusters.

In more advanced deployments, you may have multiple Kafka clusters in each of several data
        centers. To prevent creating a fully-connected mesh of all Kafka clusters, Cloudera
        recommends leveraging a single Kafka cluster in each data center for cross data center
        replication.
This example demonstrates the steps required to configure the deployment shown below.
        Additionally, it provides example commands that start bidirectional replication of all
        topics within each data center as well as example commands that replicate a single topic
        across all data centers 
Figure 1. Cross Data Center Replication of Multiple Clusters





The following list of steps assume that all clusters are unsecured. 
The following list of steps assume that both Streams Replication Manager Service and
          Driver roles are running on all Kafka broker hosts. Additionally, both roles have a single
          target which is their co-located cluster (the cluster they are running in).
Clusters West 1, East 1, and South 1 are collectively referred to as primary clusters,
          while clusters West 2, East 2, and South 2 are collectively referred to as secondary
          clusters.
Steps 1 through 8 must be carried out on each of the clusters individually. That is, the
          properties presented in these steps must  be configured on all clusters. However, how you
          configure the properties for each individual cluster (the values that you set) will be
          different. The steps provide an explanation for each configuration and provide explicit
          examples for the clusters in Data Center West. 


Define the external Kafka cluster: External clusters are configured
          with Kafka credentials. On each primary cluster you need to create a total of three Kafka
          credentials. Two representing the other two primary clusters and another one representing
          the secondary cluster that is in the same data center. On each secondary cluster you need
          to create a single Kafka credential representing the primary cluster that is running in
          the same data center.
In Cloudera Manager, go to
                  Administration > External
                  Accounts.
Go to the Kafka Credentials tab. 
Click Add Kafka credentials.
Configure the Kafka credentials.For example, in West 1, you need
              to create credentials for East 1, South 1, and West 2. In West 2, you need to create a
              credential for West 1.
West 1East 1 CredentialSouth 1 CredentialWest 2 CredentialName=east1
Bootstrap servers=east1-host1.cloudera.com:9092, east1-host2.cloudera.com:9092, east1-host2.cloudera.com:9092
Security protocol=PLAINTEXT
Name=south1
Bootstrap servers=south1-host1.cloudera.com:9092, south1-host2.cloudera.com:9092, south1-host2.cloudera.com:9092
Security protocol=PLAINTEXT
Name=west2
Bootstrap servers=west2-host1.cloudera.com:9092, west2-host2.cloudera.com:9092, west2-host2.cloudera.com:9092
Security protocol=PLAINTEXT

West 2West 1 CredentialName=west1
Bootstrap servers=west1-host1.cloudera.com:9092, west1-host2.cloudera.com:9092, west1-host2.cloudera.com:9092
Security protocol=PLAINTEXT


Click Add.If credential creation is
              successful, a new entry corresponding to the Kafka credential you specified appears on
              the page.
Define the co-located Kafka cluster:
In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters and select the
              Streams Replication Manager service.
Go to Configuration.
Find and enable the Kafka Service
            property.
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Co-located
                Kafka Cluster Alias property.The alias you configure
              represents the co-located cluster. Enter an alias that is unique and easily
                identifiable.For example:
West 1west1
West 2west2

Add the clusters defined with Kafka credentials to SRM’s configuration:
Find and configure the External Kafka Accounts
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines for each Kafka credential you
              created.
Add the names of all Kafka credentials.Add each Kafka credential
              that you created in the cluster that you are configuring. When configured correctly,
              the property will include three credential names in each primary and a single
              credential name in each secondary cluster. Each Kafka credential must be added to a
              new line. For example, in West 1 you must add the names of the Kafka credentials
                that you created in West 1: east1
south1
west2In West
                2, you must add a the name of the single credential created for West
                1:west1
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Cluster
            alias property.Add all cluster aliases to this property. This
          includes the aliases present in both the External Kafka Accounts and Streams
            Replication Manager Co-located Kafka Cluster Alias properties. Delimit the aliases
          with commas. For example:
West 1west1, west2, east1, south1
West 2west1, west2
Add and enable replications:
Find the Streams Replication Manager's Replication
                Configs property.
Click the add button and add new lines for each unique replication you want
              to add and enable.
Add and enable your replications. 
In the case of this example, you need to enable both cross data center replication
                and replication within each data center. This can be done by configuring three
                replications in each primary cluster and a single replication in each of the
                secondary clusters. Each of the replications that you configure should target the
                cluster that you are configuring. For example:
West
                    1east1->west1.enabled=true
south1->west1.enabled=true
west2->west1.enabled=true
West 2west1->west2.enabled=true




Click Save Changes.Restart the SRM service.Start replication with the srm-control tool:The
          following command examples demonstrate how you can start replication of a single topic
          across all data centers and how you can replicate all topics within each data
          center.
SSH into one of the hosts in West 1 and run the following
              commands:Replicate topic1 across data
              centers.srm-control topics --source east1 --target west1 --add topic1,east2.topic1
srm-control topics --source south1 --target west1 --add topic1,south2.topic1
Replicate
              all topics within the data
              center.srm-control topics --source west1 --target west2 --add ".*"
srm-control topics --source west2 --target west1 --add ".*"

SSH into one of the hosts in East 1 and run the following
              commands:Replicate topic1 across data
              centers.srm-control topics --source west1 --target east1 --add topic1,west2.topic1
srm-control topics --source south1 --target east1 --add topic1,south2.topic1
Replicate
              all topics within the data
              center.srm-control topics --source east1 --target east2 --add ".*"
srm-control topics --source east2 --target east1 --add ".*"

SSH into one of the hosts in South 1 and run the following
              commands:Replicate topic1 across data
              centers.srm-control topics --source west1 --target south1 --add topic1,west2.topic1
srm-control topics --source east1 --target south1 --add topic1,east2.topic1
Replicate
              all topics within the data
              center.srm-control topics --source south1 --target south2 --add ".*"
srm-control topics --source south2 --target south1 --add ".*"


Parent topic: Configuration examples