Enable high availability for Streams Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Enable high availability for Streams Replication Manager
 Streams Replication Manager is capable of running in high availability mode. This can
    be enabled by deploying multiple instances of the driver and service role in a
    cluster.
Streams Replication Manager (SRM) is capable of running in high availability mode. By
      enabling high availability mode for SRM, you can ensure that the replication of data and the
      monitoring of replication continues even in the case of host failure. To enable SRM high
      availability, you must deploy multiple instances of the driver and service roles on the hosts
      in a cluster.
In CDP Private Cloud Base this can be done when installing a new
      cluster, when adding SRM to an existing cluster, or when SRM is already deployed and running
      on a cluster. 
note Expect an increased load when running SRM in high availability mode.
Enable high availability for SRM during cluster installation 
To enable high availability for SRM during cluster installation, follow the cluster
        installation instructions available in CDP Private Cloud Base Installation Guide . During
          Step 7: Set Up a Cluster Using the Wizard, when
        prompted to assign roles to hosts, assign multiple role instances of the SRM driver and
        service roles to your hosts.

Enable high availability when adding SRM to an existing cluster
To enable high availability when adding SRM to an existing cluster, follow the service
        installation instructions available in Add Streams Replication Manager to an existing
          cluster. When assigning role instances to hosts, assign multiple role instances of
        the SRM driver and service roles to your hosts.

Enable high availability for an already running instance of SRM
To enable high availability for an already running instance of SRM, you must add
        additional driver and service role instances to your hosts. For more information, see Adding a Role Instance in the Cloudera Manager
        documentation.


Related informationSetting up your Streams Messaging clusterStreams Replication Manager DriverTask architecture and load-balancing