Configuring SRM Driver heartbeat emissionCloudera Docs
Configuring SRM Driver heartbeat emission
The Streams Replication Manager (SRM) Driver spins up a Kafka Connect worker for each
    possible replication in your deployment. However, some of these workers created for disabled
    replications might be unnecessary. Unnecessary workers can be deactivated by configuring
    heartbeat emission. This can help with minimizing unnecessary performance overhead.

At startup the SRM Driver creates a Kafka Connect worker for each possible replication
        based on the cluster aliases you have configured. This means that a Connect worker is
        created not only for the replications that you specifically enable, but also for the ones
        that are disabled. The difference between an enabled and disabled replication is that for
        disabled replications not all possible connectors are set up. For disabled replications only
        the MirrorHeartbeatConnector is created which is responsible for heartbeat emission. For
        more information on Connect workers and connector instances created by the SRM Driver, see
          Streams Replication Manager Architecture.
In certain scenarios, some of the Connect workers set up for a disabled replication are
        unnecessary. In such a case, you can configure SRM to not create these Connect workers and
        to fully deactivate unutilized replications. This can be done by disabling heartbeat
        emission for these replications. If heartbeat emission is disabled, the Connect worker and
        MirrorHeartbeatConnector are not created. As a result, the replication associated with that
        worker is fully deactivated. This can help in minimizing the performance overhead caused by
        unnecessary Connect workers.
Heartbeat emission is configured with the emit.heartbeats.enabled
        property. This property can be set on a global as well as replication specific level. On a
        global level, heartbeat emission can be turned on and off using the Enable
          Heartbeats Cloudera Manager property. On a replication level, configuration is
        done by adding emit.heartbeats.enabled to Streams Replication
          Manager's Replication Configs with a replication prefix. For example,
          A->B.emit.heartbeats.enabled=true.
Which disabled replications are unnecessary differs from deployment to deployment. To
        operate correctly, SRM requires that all clusters that act as a source have a heartbeats
        topic. The heartbeats topic is created by Connect workers that target the cluster. This
        means that at minimum, each source cluster must be targeted by at least a single enabled or
        disabled replication. All other disabled replications can be fully deactivated. 
For example, assume that you have three clusters, A, B, and C. The SRM Driver is targeting
        all three clusters. Because the SRM Driver spins up a Connect worker for each possible
        replication, the following Connect workers are created:
B->A
C->A
A->B
C->B
A->C
B->C

Now, assume that the enabled replications, the ones that replicate data, are A->B, B->C,
        and C->A. This means that all three clusters act as sources. Therefore, heartbeat emission
        must be enabled in at least a single replication that is targeting the clusters. All other
        replications can be fully deactivated. In this example, the enabled replications A->B, B->C,
        and C->A target one of the clusters each. As a result, these replications take care of
        heartbeating. Out of all replications, the following can be deactivated: 
B->A
C->B
A->C
This can be achieved by for example enabling heartbeat emission on a global level with
          Enable Heartbeats and adding the following entries to
          Streams Replication Manager's Replication Configs:
        B->A.emit.heartbeats.enabled=false
C->B.emit.heartbeats.enabled=false
A->C.emit.heartbeats.enabled=false

Consider another example. Assume that you have the same setup, but the enabled replications
        are A->B and B->C. Cluster A acts as a source but is not targeted by any enabled
        replication. In a case like this, you can only fully deactivate replications C->B and A->C.
        One of the replications targeting cluster A (B->A or C->A) must remain disabled and cannot
        be deactivated. Otherwise, a heartbeats topic will not be created in cluster A. 
This can be achieved by for example enabling heartbeat emission on a global level with
          Enable Heartbeats and adding the following entries to
          Streams Replication Manager's Replication
        Configs:C->B.emit.heartbeats.enabled=false
A->C.emit.heartbeats.enabled=false
B->A.emit.heartbeats.enabled=false
In
        this example, replication B->A was fully deactivated (heartbeat emission disabled) and
        replication C->A was left disabled. Although replication C->A is disabled, it is still
        actively emitting heartbeats as a result of Enable Heartbeats being
        enabled.

In Cloudera Manager, select the Streams Replication Manager Service.Go to Configuration.Configure heartbeat emission for your replications.You have two
          options. You can enable heartbeat emission on a global level and disable it for the
          required replications, or disable heartbeat emission on a global level and enable it for
          the required replications. Enable globally and disable per replicationDisable globally and enable per replication
Find and enable the Enable Heartbeats property.
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager's Replication
                  Configs property.Add the emit.heartbeats.enabled
                  property with a correct replication prefix. For
                  example:A->B.emit.heartbeats.enabled=falseRepeat this step
                  for all replications that you want to disable heartbeat emission for.

Find and disable the Enable Heartbeats property 
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager's Replication
                  Configs property.Add the emit.heartbeats.enabled
                  property with correct replication prefix. For
                  example:A->B.emit.heartbeats.enabled=trueRepeat this step
                  for all replications that you want to enable heartbeat emission for.
Click Save Changes.Restart Streams Replication Manager.
Heartbeat emission is configured. Unnecessary replications are
      fully deactivated.

Related informationStreams Replication Manager Architecture