Configuring automatic group offset synchronizationCloudera Docs
Configuring automatic group offset synchronization
Automatic group offset synchronization is a feature in Streams Replication Manager
    (SRM) that automates the export and application of translated consumer group offsets. Enabling
    this feature can simplify the manual steps that you need to take to migrate consumer groups in a
    failover or failback scenario. 

SRM automatically translates consumer group offsets between clusters.
        While the offset mappings are created by SRM, they are not applied by default to the
        consumer groups of the target cluster. As a result, by default, migrating consumer groups
        from one cluster to another involves running the srm-control offsets and
          kafka-consumer-groups tools. The srm-control offsets
        tool exports translated offsets, kafka-consumer-groups resets and applies
        the translated offsets on the target cluster.
This process can be automated by enabling automatic group offset synchronization. If
        automatic group offset synchronization is enabled, the translated group offsets of the
        source cluster are automatically exported from the source cluster and are applied on the
        target cluster (they are written to the __consumer_offsets topic ). If you
        choose to enable this feature, running srm-control offsets and
          kafka-consumer-groups is not required to migrate consumer groups. You
        only need to restart and redirect consumers to consume from the new cluster. 
Although automatic group offset synchronization can simplify migrating consumer groups,
        ensure that you understand the following about its behavior:
Automatic group offset synchronization does not fully automate a failover or
            failback
            process. It only allows you to skip certain manual
            steps.
            Consumers must be restarted and redirected to the new cluster even if the feature is
            enabled. 
Offsets are synced at a configured interval. As a result, it is not guaranteed that
            the latest translated offsets are applied. If you want to have the latest offsets
            applied, Cloudera recommends that you export and apply consumer group offsets
            manually.
            The exact interval depends on sync.group.offsets.interval.seconds and
              emit.checkpoints.interval.seconds.
The checkpointing frequency configured for SRM can have an effect on the group offset
            synchronization frequency. The frequency of group offset synchronization can be
            configured with sync.group.offsets.interval.seconds. However,
            specifying an interval using this property might not result in the offsets being
            synchronized at the set frequency. This depends on how
              emit.checkpoints.interval is configured. The
              emit.checkpoints.interval property specifies how frequently offset
            information is fetched (checkpointing). Because offset synchronization can only happen
            after offset information is available, the frequency configured with the
              emit.checkpoints.interval
            property might introduce additional latency. For example, assume that
            you set offset synchronization to 60 seconds (default), but have checkpointing set to
            120 seconds. In a case like this, offset
            synchronization
            happens
            every 60 seconds, but because offset information is only refreshed every 120 seconds, in
            practice offsets are only synchronized every 120 seconds.
Offsets are only synchronized for the consumers that are inactive in the target
            cluster. This is done so that the SRM does not override the offsets in the target
            cluster.



In Cloudera Manager, select Streams Replication Manager. Go to Configuration.Find the Streams Replication Manager's Replication Configs
          and add the following configuration entries:
sync.group.offsets.enabled = true
sync.group.offsets.interval.seconds = [***TIME IN SECONDS***]

In this example, all properties are set on a global level. This means that automatic
            group offset synchronization is applied to all replications. Depending on your setup,
            you can also choose to set these properties for specific
            replications
            using appropriate replication prefixes. 
The sync.group.offsets.enabled property enables automatic group offset
            synchronization. The sync.group.offsets.interval.seconds property
            controls how frequently offsets are synched. You only need to specify this property if
            you want to customize synchronization frequency.
Enter a Reason for change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart Streams Replication Manager.

Automatic group offset synchronization is enabled. From now on, SRM automatically
      exports the translated offsets of the configured source clusters and applies them to the
      configured target clusters.

