Process of migrating the HDFS data to OzoneCloudera Docs
Process of migrating the HDFS data to Ozone
After verifying the prerequisites for HDFS to Ozone data migration process, you can
        use the distcp command to transfer the data from HDFS to Ozone. 
You need to verify that the cluster satisfies certain
            prerequisites for migrating data from the HDFS sources and then prepare the Ozone
            cluster for ingesting data from the HDFS cluster. You can create additional Ranger
            policies after preparing the Ozone cluster. Then you can migrate the HDFS data by using
            the distcp command. After the HDFS to Ozone migration process completes, validate the
            migrated data. You can also configure other services including Hive and Spark to work
            with Ozone.Read the topics in this section for information about preparation for the
                HDFS to Ozone migration process and topics that describe how to complete the HDFS to
                Ozone migration process.

Verifying the migration prerequisitesYou must create the destination Ozone cluster and ensure that the cluster satisfies         the prerequisites for migrating data from the HDFS sources. Preparing Ozone for data ingestionYou must prepare the Ozone cluster for ingesting the data from the HDFS cluster. Creating additional Ranger policies for the keyadmin userAfter creating the encrypted bucket, add the required policies to allow reads to the         bucket. Moving the HDFS data using the distcp commandUse the hadoop distcp command to move the content from the HDFS         source cluster. Validating the migrated dataYou must run specific commands on the source and destination clusters to validate the         migrated data from the HDFS cluster.Cleaning up data on the HDFS sourceAfter validating the data migrated to Ozone, you can clean up the HDFS data depending         on your requirements.(Optional) Configure other services to work with OzoneIf you want services such as Hive and Spark to work with the migrated data in Ozone,         you must perform specific configurations. 