Ozone configurationsCloudera Docs
Ozone configurations
Ozone’s main configuration file is ozone-site.xml that carries the
        server or the client configurations depending on the component. 
The details of the server-side or client-side configuration files are as follows: 
The server-side ozone-site.xml files such as OM, SCM, Recon,
                    and S3 Gateway are present in their respective run directories; for example,
                        /var/run/cloudera-scm-agent/process/45-ozone-OZONE_MANAGER,
                    under ozone-conf. 
The Ozone shell clients or S3 Gateway configurations are available under
                        /etc/ozone/conf on all the hosts. 
In addition to ozone-site.xml, the client-only configurations
                    are also present in core-site.xml used by clients. Therefore,
                    Ozone client applications such as Hive, Spark and so on, typically have
                    configurations in ozone-site.xml and
                        core-site.xml. 

The Ozone client configurations contain the location information for the client to know
            where the OM nodes are. A quorum of OM nodes is identified by a Service ID
                (ozone.service.id), and therefore, the Service ID usually prefixes
            any ofs:// path. Using the Service ID to configuration mapping, the
            Ozone client identifies the Ozone Manager quorum with which to interact.noteIf the
                ozone shell or hadoop-based ofs:// commands do not work as
                expected, it is likely that the Ozone client is trying to find the Ozone Manager in
                the default local host, and keeps retrying until failure. Therefore, you must ensure
                that the configuration files have the required information.
Depending on the services configured for the CDP cluster, you can also find other general
            purpose configuration files such as hdfs-site.xml,
                core-site.xml and ranger-*.xml files in the Ozone
                conf directories. 

Adding Core Configuration service for OzoneAfter enabling Kerberos, you can now add the Core             Configuration service for Ozone using the Cloudera Manager version 7.4.4 and         higher.Parent topic: Considerations for transferring data from HDFS to Ozone