Monitoring nodesCloudera Docs
Monitoring nodes
 You can get Kubernetes, cluster health, and node health information by monitoring
        CDW nodes.

In the Welcome screen, click grid , and then select
                Manage. 
A list of dashboard groups appears: 




Click the nodes dashboard group.
Names of the nodes dashboards in the group appear: 

In the list of nodes dashboards, click Node Details, and
                    then set the node of interest: In datasource, set default
                    for example; in Job, set kubernetes-service-endpoints for
                    example; in Host, set the IP address of a host in the CDW cluster.






Expand Quick CPU/Mem/Disk, and view the percentage of
                    busy CPU, the percentage of average load over the past 5 minutes and over the
                    last 15 minutes, and RAM used.

On the right side of the dashboard, with Last 24 hours
                        selected, for example, view the SWAP space used, root file
                    system used, CPU cores used, and uptime of the node. 






Scroll down, expand Basic CPU/Mem/Net/Disk, and see
                    graphs on the left showing metrics about high activity from various souces, such
                    as a busy user or busy interrupt requests (IRQ), and a graph of packets received
                    and transmitted by network traffic.






On, the right, see graphs of basic memory and disk space use.


In the list of nodes dashboards, click Cluster Totals to
                    view cluster health in graphs and metrics over the past 24 hours, as indicated
                    by Cluster Memory Utilization, Cluster CPU Utilization, Shared Services Node
                    Count, and Compute Nodes Count.






In the list of nodes dashboards, click Node Trends to
                    view node health over the past 24 hours, as indicated by CPU Utilization, Load
                    Average and CPU Count, Memory Utilization, and Disk Utilization.







Parent topic: Monitoring resources with Grafana