Starting, stopping, restarting, and refreshing Embedded Container Service ClustersCloudera Docs
Starting, stopping, restarting, and refreshing Embedded Container Service Clusters 
Procedures to start, stop, restart, and refresh Private Cloud
    Experience clusters
Parent topic: The Embedded Container Service (ECS)
Starting a Embedded Container Service Cluster 

On the
                Home > Status
            tab, click the Actions Menu to the right of the Embedded Container Service
            cluster name and select Start.Click the Start button that appears in
            the next screen to confirm. The Command Details window shows the
            progress of starting services.
When the All services
          successfully started message appears, the task is complete
        and you can close the Command Details window.



Stopping a CDP Private Cloud Data Services Cluster 

On the
                Home > Status
            tab, click the Actions Menu to the right of the Embedded Container Service cluster name and select
              Stop.Click the Stop button in the
            confirmation screen. The Command Details window shows the progress
            of stopping services.
When the All services
          successfully stopped message appears, the task is complete
        and you can close the Command Details window.noteThe cluster-level
          Stop action does not stop the Cloudera Management Service. You must
          stop the Cloudera Management Service separately.



Restarting a Embedded Container Service Cluster 

On the
                Home > Status
            tab, click the Actions Menu to the right of the cluster name and
            select Restart.Click the Restart button that appears
            in the next screen to confirm. The Command Details
            window shows the progress of stopping services. When the
              All services successfully started message
            appears, the task is complete and you can close the Command Details
            window. Click
                Actions > Unseal
                Vault



Refreshing a Embedded Container Service Cluster 

To refresh a cluster, in the
                Home > Status
            tab, click the Actions Menu to the right of the cluster name and
            select Refresh Cluster.


