Using Ranger to Provide Authorization in CDPCloudera Docs
Using Ranger to Provide Authorization in CDP
Apache Ranger manages access control through a user interface that ensures consistent
      policy administration across Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) components. Security administrators
      can define security policies at the database, table, column, and file levels, and can
      administer permissions for specific LDAP-based groups or individual users. Rules based on
      dynamic conditions such as time or geolocation can also be added to an existing policy rule.
      The Ranger authorization model is pluggable and can be easily extended to any data source
      using a service-based definition.
Once a user has been authenticated, their access rights must be determined. Authorization
         defines user access rights to resources. For example, a user may be allowed to create a
         policy and view reports, but not allowed to edit users and groups. You can use Ranger to
         set up and manage access to Hadoop services.
Ranger enables you to create services for specific resources (HDFS, HBase, Hive, etc.) and
         add access policies to those services. Ranger security zones enable you to organize service
         resources into multiple security zones. You can also create tag-based services and add
         access policies to those services. Using tag-based policies enables you to control access
         to resources across multiple components without creating separate services and policies in
         each component. You can also use Ranger TagSync to synchronize the Ranger tag store with an
         external metadata service such as Apache Atlas.
note
You can configure authorization using the Ranger UI, REST APIs, or client libraries. For
            more information about:
Ranger REST APIs, see see https://ranger.apache.org/apidocs/index.html.
Ranger client libraries, see Using Ranger client libraries.



Related informationApache Ranger AuthorizationApache Ranger REST API: ResourcesUsing Ranger client libraries