Create an Inbound Connection Endpoint during flow deploymentCloudera Docs
Create an Inbound Connection Endpoint during flow deployment
During flow deployment, you can enable an endpoint that allows NiFi to listen to
        external data sources.
You can create flow deployments with an Inbound Connection Endpoint during flow
            deployment, using the CDF Deployment wizard.noteCurrently you
                cannot create flow deployments with Inbound Connection Endpoints using the CLI.
            


A flow definition supporting inbound connections has been created and
                    added to the Catalog.
You have DFCatalogViewer role to view flow definitions in the Catalog.
You have DFFlowAdmin right for the environment where you want to
                    create the endpoint.



During flow deployment, at the NiFi Configuration step,
                    select Inbound Connections > Allow NiFi to Receive Data.

An Endpoint Hostname, generated from the Deployment
                            Name you provided at the Overview
                        step is offered and port configuration options become available.





You can accept the generated hostname as is, or you can change the prefix. You
                    can also click Select Preexisting Endpoint to select an
                    available endpoint within your environment. 
Endpoints are unavailable if they are currently used by another flow
                    deployment.

Select Listening Ports. 

Provide the protocol and port or ports where your flow will listen to
                        incoming data. CDF automatically suggests ports based on listen processors
                        detected in the flow definition. Custom Processors, if applicable, are not
                        detected and must be added manually.
Using ports with mixed protocols (TCP and UDP) is not allowed. As long as the
                        suggested ports use mixed protocols, you are not allowed to add new ports or
                        to proceed to the next step in the Wizard.
noteIf you want your dataflow to use HTTP, select TCP
                        protocol.





Fill in Parameters.
If the listening port in your flow definition is parameterized instead of
                    having a pre-defined value, you have to fill in the same listening port numbers
                    you provided in the NiFi Configuration step. The
                    listening ports you specified in the NiFi Configuration
                    step are visible in the Overview pane.

Configure Sizing & Scaling, then click
                        Next.
Optional: 
Add Key Performance Indicators, then click
                        Next.

Review the information provided and click Deploy.

As part of the flow deployment, a Layer-4 Load Balancer (LB) is created to
                        forward traffic to the flow deployment’s NiFi cluster on the configured
                        ports and protocols. DNS records are created for Inbound Connection Endpoint
                        hostname to resolve to the Layer-4 LB. noteThere is an initial delay for the cloud provider (AWS or
                            Azure) to fully provision and start the LB resources, during which the
                            flow deployment appears in the CDF monitoring dashboard as healthy, but
                            it is not yet able to receive data from clients. The load balancer
                            provisioning normally completes within 10 minutes of the flow deployment
                            being finished, but can take up to three hours.



Related informationDeploying a flow definition