Workspaces in CDP Data VisualizationCloudera Docs
Workspaces in CDP Data Visualization
Cloudera Data Visualization uses workspaces to manage both security and workflow of
    data visualization in enterprise organizations. To organize and share your visuals in in the
    most effective way, you should be familiar with the different levels of organizing visual
    artifacts in the system.
When you use Cloudera Data Visualization you work and save your visuals in a
      workspace. There are three types of workspaces: private, public, and custom. 

When you create a visual, it is automatically saved in your private workspace and
      can only be accessed by you (and the administrators). In this private workspace, you can also
      create dashboards, and add visuals and filters to these dashboards.
With appropriate privileges, you can create a custom workspace to allow for
      collaboration with other users. If you want to share your visuals or dashboards with specific
      users or a user group, move them to a custom workspace and configure their access rights as
      needed.
Dashboards and visuals can only exist in one workspace at a time, so if you want to
      share a visual artifact with other users, move it from your private workspace into a custom
      workspace or to the public workspace.
noteIn the public workspace, your visuals are visible to any user who has minimal viewing
      permissions to the relevant dataset.
To better understand the key points of organizing visuals in workspaces, see the following
      relationship diagram.



workspace I - PRIVATE
Only its owner and the administrators have access to this workspace. Additional
          permissions cannot be applied.
It contains dashboard 1.
Dasboard 1 contains two sheets: sheet A and sheet
              B.
Sheet A contains a single image called visual a.
Sheet B contains visual b, visual c, and a
                filter.

It contains dashboard 2.
Dashboard 2 contains a single sheet C, which references
                visual d.

workspace II - PUBLIC
Artifacts in this workspace are visible to any user who has minimal viewing permissions
          to the relevant dataset.
It contains dashboard 3.
Dashboard 3 contains a single sheet D.
Sheet D contains visual d and references visual
              e.



Related informationPublic workspacePrivate workspaceCustom workspaceCreating a workspace 