Difference between Tez UI and DASCloudera Docs
Difference between Tez UI and DAS
Both Tez UI and Data Analytics Studio (DAS) provide a framework to analyze Hive and Hive
  on Tez queries by providing granular data about query execution, such as Directed Acyclic Graph
  (DAG) information, DAG swimlanes, visual explain plan, task and task attempt break-down, and so
  on. Additionally, DAS provides a UI to compose and run Hive queries, compare two queries, query
  optimization recommendation, and also provides Read/Write and Join reports to understand database
  usage.
The following table provides a comparison between Tez UI and DAS:Table 1. Difference between Tez UI and DAS

Comparison factor
Tez UI
DAS



Philosophy
Provides all available data abou a Tez job required to debug a query.
A UI for running and debugging Hive queries.


Part of the Apache Tez project.
Part of the CDP platform made available under the terms of the GNU Affero General
        Public License (GNU AGPLv3).


Backend
No dedicated backend for data processing. Depends on YARN Application Timeline Server
        (ATS) for the data and obtains the progress information from the Tez Application Master
        (AM).
DAS Event Processor is used for processing data, in addition to the DAS Web App (Java
        backend) and PostgreSQL database.


Hive
Cannot run or terminate a job.
Can compose, run, and terminate Hive queries.


Cannot manage a database schema.
Can manage a Hive database schema and can visualize database usage using Read/Write
        and Join reports.


Available data
Following entities are displayed:
Application, Hive query, DAG, vertex, task, task attempts, DAG counters
Hyperlinks interconnecting all these entities for easy drill-down
Detailed tables for all entities
Dedicated details + stats page for all these entities
All counters of each entity are displayed in the respective tables

Following entities are displayed:
All Hive query details
Limited DAG and vertex details
No details of Application, task and task attempt
Table only for Hive queries
Details page only for Hive queries
Tables are available only for queries and information about counters is not visible
         



Search and sort


Supports limited filtering across all query and all DAG tables
Supports substring search and sort on DAGs (under a query), vertex, task and task
          attempt data tables
Does not support sorting on all queries and all DAG tables




Supports full text search, but only on all queries table
Supports sorting on query data




Progress information


Provides real-time progress information for all entities
All pages refresh automatically




No progress information available
Pages do not refresh automatically




Data download
You can download a zip file containing the following data in JSON format:
Application details
Query details
DAG, vertex, task, and task attempt details
You can also download entity-level logs in text format.
You can download a zip file containing the following data in JSON format:
Query details
DAG and vertex details aggregrated by DAS
DAG, vertex, task, and task attempt events from Tez
Application attemps information
You can also download container logs in text format.



