User management in HueCloudera Docs
User management in Hue
Hue is a gateway to CDP cluster services and both have completely separate permissions.
    Being a Hue superuser does not grant access to HDFS, Hive, and so on.
Users who log on to the Hue UI must have permission to use Hue and to each CDP service
      accessible within Hue. 
A common configuration is for Hue users to be authenticated with an LDAP server and
        CDP users with Kerberos. These users can differ. For example, CDP services do not
      authenticate each user who logs on to Hue. Rather, they authenticate Hue and trust that
      Hue has authenticated its users. 
Once Hue is authenticated by a service such as Hive, Hue
     impersonates the user requesting use of that service. For example, to create
     a Hive table. The service uses Apache Ranger to ensure the group to which that user
     belongs is authorized for that action.
Hue user permissions are at the application level only. For example, a
     Hue superuser can filter Hue user access to a CDP service but
     cannot authorize the use of its features. Again, Ranger does that.

Understanding Hue users and groupsThere are two types of users in Hue - superusers and general users referred to as users,   each with specific privileges. These users can be a part of certain groups. Groups enable you to   control which Hue applications and features your users can view and access when they log into   Hue.Finding the list of Hue superusersYou can fetch the list of superusers by using the Hue shell with Python code or by         running a SQL query on the auth_user table.Creating a Hue user in Cloudera Data WarehouseYou can create new Hue users and superusers from the Hue web UI and assign them to         groups so that they can view and access Hue as per the permissions granted to         them.Creating a group in HueBy creating groups, you can club certain permissions that you want to assign to         specific users in your organization.Managing Hue permissionsPermissions for Hue applications are granted to groups, with users gaining         permissions based on their group membership. Group permissions define the Hue applications         visible to group members when they log in to Hue and the application features available to         them. There is a fixed set of Hue permissions. You cannot add or modify permissions.         However, you can apply permission to group(s).