Using Zeppelin InterpretersCloudera Docs
Using Zeppelin
      Interpreters
This section describes how to use Apache Zeppelin interpreters. 
Before using an interpreter, ensure that the interpreter is available for use in your
            note:

Navigate to your note.
Click on “interpreter binding”:
Under "Settings", make sure that the interpreter you want to use is selected (in
               blue text). Unselected interpreters appear in white text:
To select an interpreter, click on the interpreter name to select the interpreter.
               Each click operates as a toggle.
You should unselect interpreters that will not be used. This makes your choices
               clearer. For example, if you plan to use %livy to access Spark,
               unselect the %spark interpreter.

Whenever one or more interpreters could be used to access the same underlying service,
            you can specify the precedence of interpreters within a note:


Drag and drop interpreters into the desired positions in the list.


When finished, click "Save".


Use an interpreter in a paragraph
To use an interpreter, specify the interpreter directive at the beginning of a
            paragraph, using the format %[INTERPRETER_NAME]. The directive must
            appear before any code that uses the interpreter.
The following paragraph uses the %sh interpreter to access the system
            shell and list the current working directory:
%sh
pwd

home/zeppelin
Some interpreters support more than one form of the directive. For example, the
               %livy interpreter supports directives for PySpark, PySpark3, SparkR,
            Spark SQL.
To view interpreter directives and settings, navigate to the Interpreter page and scroll
            through the list of interpreters or search for the interpreter name. Directives are
            listed immediately after the name of the interpreter, followed by options and property
            settings. For example, the JDBC interpreter supports the %jdbc directive:

Note: The Interpreter page is subject to access control settings. If the
            Interpreters page does not list settings, check with your system administrator for more
            information.
Use interpreter groups
Each interpreter belongs to an interpreter group. Interpreters in the same group can
            reference each other. For example, if the Spark SQL interpreter and the Spark
            interpreter are in the same group, the Spark SQL interpreter can reference the Spark
            interpreter to access its SparkContext.

Parent topic: Setting up Zeppelin to Run with CCP