Create a provisioning credential for AWSCloudera Docs
Create a provisioning credential for
      AWS
Create a role-based credential referencing
      the IAM role created earlier. This can be done from the CDP web interface or CDP CLI. 
Before you begin
Prior to performing these steps. you should create a cross-account role. See Cross-account access IAM role.
These steps assume that you have the ARN of the IAM role that you created in an earlier
         step. You can obtain the IAM Role ARN from the IAM console > Roles on AWS by
         selecting a role and clicking on your IAM role to navigate to its summary and then copying
         the Role ARN:

Required role:
EnvironmentCreator
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI

Log in to the CDP web interface.note
These steps show you how to create a credential from the Credentials page in
                        the CDP web interface, but you may also create a credential directly from
                        the Environments page as part of environment registration process. 

Navigate to the Management Console.
Select Shared Resources > Credentials from the navigation pane.
Click Create Credential.
Select AWS to access credential options for Amazon Web Services. 
Provide the following information:
                  

Parameter
Description



Select Credential Type
Select Role Based (default value).


Name
Enter a name for your credential.


Description
(Optional) Enter a description.


Enable Permission Verification
Activate the Enable Permission Verification
                              button if you want CDP to check permissions for your credential. CDP
                              will verify that you have the required permissions for your
                              environment.


IAM Role ARN
Paste the IAM Role ARN corresponding to the “CredentialRole”
                                 that you created earlier. For example
                                    arn:aws:iam::315627065446:role/CredentialRole
                                 is a valid IAM Role ARN.



Click Create.
Your credential should now be displayed in the Credentials pane.



You have three options:
                  
(The simplest option) In CDP CLI, use the following command to create a
                           credential:cdp environments create-aws-credential \
--credential-name <value> --role-arn <value>
Alternatively, you can provide the credential information in the CDP web interface
                        > Management Console > Environments > Shared Resources > Credentials > Create
                           Credential and then click on SHOW CLI COMMAND and copy the JSON
                        snippet. Next, save the JSON in a text file and use the following command to create
                        a
                        credential:cdp environments create-aws-credential --cli-input-json <value>
Alternatively, you can use the following commands: Use the first command to
                           obtain the JSON snipped, then provide the missing information, and then
                           use the second command to create the
                           credential:cdp environments create-aws-credential --generate-cli-skeleton
cdp environments create-aws-credential --cli-input-json <value>



After you finishNow that you have created the credential, you can use it to register your AWS
            environment.


