Introduction to the role-based provisioning credential for AWSCloudera Docs
Introduction to the role-based provisioning
      credential for AWS
Creating a credential is a prerequisite for
      creating an environment. On AWS, you have a single option for creating a cloud credential: a
      role-based credential. 
When working with an AWS environment, you are required to configure a way for CDP to
         authenticate with your AWS account and obtain authorization to create resources on your
         behalf. On AWS, there is a single option for doing this: the role-based credential.
         Role-based authentication uses an IAM role with an attached IAM policy that has the minimum
         permissions required to use CDP. As stated in AWS docs:
"An IAM role is similar to an IAM user, in that it is an AWS identity with permission
         policies that determine what the identity can and cannot do in AWS. However, instead of
         being uniquely associated with one person, a role is intended to be assumable by anyone who
         needs it. Also, a role does not have standard long-term credentials such as a password or
         access keys associated with it. Instead, when you assume a role, it provides you with
         temporary security credentials for your role session."  
The following table provides more information on the role-based credential:


Role-based



IAM entity used by the credential
A cross-account IAM role


Security mechanism
An IAM role does not have standard long-term credentials such as a
                        password or access keys associated with it. Instead, when an entity assumes
                        a role, temporary security credentials for the role session are
                           generated.Since CDP is set up with an AssumeRole policy, it can assume
                           the IAM role. For more information about AssumeRole and granting
                           permissions to create temporary security credentials, refer to AWS
                           docs.


Use case
Suitable for an organization as it allows multiple users to use the same
                        IAM role.


Overview of configuration steps
1. In the IAM console on AWS, create an IAM policy and a cross-account
                        IAM role, and then assign the IAM policy to the IAM role. 2. Register the
                           role ARN as a credential in CDP. Once done, CDP can assume the IAM
                           role.



Related informationIAM roles (AWS)Granting permissions to create temporary security credentials
                     (AWS)