Migrating a Hive table to IcebergCloudera Docs
Migrating a Hive table to Iceberg
 You see how to use a simple ALTER TABLE statement from Hive or Impala to migrate an
        external Hive table to an Iceberg table. You see how to configure table input and output by
        setting table properties.

noteTo prevent loss of new and old table data during migration of a
                table to Iceberg, do not drop, move, or change the old table during migration. 

In Impala, you can configure the NUM_THREADS_FOR_TABLE_MIGRATION query option to
            tweak the performance of the table migration. It sets the maximum number of threads to
            be used for the migration process but could also be limited by the number of CPUs. If
            set to zero then the number of available CPUs on the coordinator node is used as the
            maximum number of threads. Parallelism occurs on the basis of data files within a
            partition, which means one partition is processed at a time with multiple threads
            processing the files inside the partition. In case there is only one file in each
            partition, sequential execution occurs.

Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse
                    service.

In the Data Warehouse service, in the Overview page, locate your Virtual
                    Warehouse, and click Hue.
Instead of using Hue, you can connect over JDBC to the Virtual Warehouse, and run the query.

Enter a query to use a database.
For
                    example:USE mydb;

Enter a query to migrate an existing external Hive table to an Iceberg v2
                    table.
Hive example: ALTER TABLE tbl 
SET TBLPROPERTIES ('storage_handler'='org.apache.iceberg.mr.hive.HiveIcebergStorageHandler',
 'format-version' = '2');Impala example, which requires two
                    queries:ALTER TABLE table_name CONVERT TO ICEBERG;
ALTER TABLE table_name SET TBLPROPERTIES ('format-version'='2');
The first ALTER command converts the Hive table to an Iceberg V1 table.

Click  to run the queries.
An Iceberg V2 table is created, replacing the Hive table.


