Network specificationCloudera Docs
Network specification
Review the network specifications recommended for deploying a CDP Private Cloud Base
  cluster.
Dedicated network hardware
Hadoop can consume all available network bandwidth. For this reason, Cloudera
    recommends that Hadoop be placed in a separate physical network with its own core switches.

Switch per rack
Hadoop supports the concept of rack locality and takes advantage of the network
    topology to minimize network congestion. Ideally, nodes in one rack should connect to a single
    physical switch. Two top- of- rack (ToR) switches can be used for high availability. Each ToR
    switch uplinks to a core switch with a significantly bigger backplane. Cloudera recommends 10
    GbE (or faster) connections between the servers and ToR switches. ToR uplink bandwidth to the
    core switch (two switches in a HA configuration) can often be oversubscribed. 

Uplink oversubscription
How much oversubscription is appropriate depends on the workload. Cloudera’s
    recommendation is that the ratio between the total access port bandwidth and uplink bandwidth be
    as close to 1:1 as possible. This is especially important for heavy ETL workloads and MapReduce
    jobs that have a lot of data sent to reducers.
Oversubscription ratios up to 4:1 are generally fine for balanced workloads, but
    network monitoring is needed to ensure uplink bandwidth is not the bottleneck for Hadoop. The
    following table provides some examples as a point of reference:


Access Port Bandwidth (In Use)
Uplink Port Bandwidth (Bonded)
Ratio



48 x 1 GbE = 48 Gbit/s
4 x 10 GbE = 40 Gbit/s
1.2:1


24 x 10 GbE = 240 Gbit/s
2 x 40 Gig CFP = 80 Gbit/s
3:1


48 x 10 GbE = 480 Gbit/s
4 x 40 Gig CFP = 160 Gbit/s
3:1


importantDo not exceed 4:1 oversubscription ratio. For
    example, if a ToR has 20 x 10 GbE ports used, the uplink should be at least 50 Gbps. Different
    switches have dedicated uplink ports of specific bandwidth (often 40 Gbps or 100 Gbps) and
    therefore careful planning needs to be done to choose the right switch types.

Redundant network switches
Having redundant core switches in a full mesh configuration allows the cluster to
    continue operating in the event of a core switch failure. Redundant ToR switches prevent the
    loss of an entire rack of processing and storage capacity in the event of a ToR switch failure.
    General cluster availability can still be maintained in the event of the loss of a rack, as long
    as master nodes are distributed across multiple racks.

Accessibility
The accessibility of your CDP Private Cloud Base cluster is defined by the network
    configuration and depends on the security requirements and the workload. Typically, there are
    edge/client nodes that have direct access to the cluster. Users go through these edge nodes
    through the client applications to interact with the cluster and the data residing there. These
    edge nodes
    may
    be running a web application for real-time serving workloads, BI tools, or simply the Hadoop
    command-line client used to submit or interact with HDFS.
Cloudera recommends allowing access to the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster through
    edge nodes only. You can configure this in the security groups for the hosts that you provision.
    The rest of this document describes the various options in detail.

Internet connectivity
Clusters that do not require heavy data transfer between the internet or services
    outside of the immediate network and
    HDFS,
    might need access to services like software repositories for updates or other low-volume
    data
    sources located outside of
    the immediate network. 
If you intend to leverage the multi-cloud/hybrid-cloud functionality in CDP, then
    you must ensure that adequate network bandwidth is present between your data centers and the
    public cloud vendors’ networks. Details on this topic are out of scope of this document. Engage
    with your Cloud vendor’s technical sales team and Cloudera Sales
    Engineering
    team to determine the requirements in such scenarios.
If you completely disconnect the cluster from the internet, you block access for
    software updates which makes maintenance difficult.


Parent topic: System Architecture Best Practices