Number of cores and multithreadingCloudera Docs
Number of cores and multithreading
Other than cost, there is no negative for buying more and better CPUs. However, the
  return of investment on additional CPU power must be evaluated carefully.
noteIt might help to consider the latest Cloudera
    licensing model as different models might fit for different use-cases.
Following are some points to consider:

Cluster Bottleneck: In general, CPU resources (and lack thereof) are not the
    bottleneck for MapReduce and HBase. Almost always, the bottleneck is drive and/or network
    performance. Certainly, there are exceptions to this, such as inefficient Hive queries. Other
    compute frameworks like Impala, Spark, and Cloudera Search may be CPU-bound depending on the
    workload.
Additional Cores/Threads: Within a given MapReduce job, a single task typically
    uses one thread at a time. With Spark this is different, because a single task might use
    multiple threads in parallel. As outlined earlier, the number of slots allocated per node may be
    a function of the number of drives in the node. A more careful evaluation is required in
    scenarios where the Virtual Private Cluster model is being considered. In such scenarios, if
    storage and compute are clearly distinct roles, then requirements might vary significantly. As
    long as there is no huge disparity in the number of cores (threads) and the number of drives,
    there is no need for additional cores. In addition, a MapReduce task is going to be I/O bound
    for typical jobs. Thus, a given thread used by the task will have a large amount of idle time
    while waiting for an I/O response.
Clock Speed: Because Cloudera clusters often begin with a small number of use cases
    and associated workloads and grow over time, it makes sense to purchase the fastest CPUs
    available. Actual CPU usage is use case and workload dependent. For instance, computationally
    intensive Spark jobs benefit more from faster CPUs than I/O bound MapReduce applications.

importantAllocate two vCPUs for the operating system and other
   non-Hadoop use (although this amount may need to be higher if additional non-Hadoop applications
   are running on the cluster nodes, such as third-party active monitoring/alerting tools). The more
   services you are running, the more vCPUs are required; you need to use more capable hosts to
   accommodate these needs.
For worker nodes, a mid-range 12-14 core CPU running at 2.4-2.5 GHz provides a good
   cost/performance tradeoff. For master nodes, a mid-range 8 core CPU with a faster clock speed
   (For example 2.6 GHz) can suffice. Where available, Simultaneous Multi-Threading implementations
   should be enabled (for example Intel’s HyperThreading). BIOS settings for CPU and memory should
   be set to Maximum Performance mode or equivalent.
See Hardware Requirements for detailed workload-specific practices.

Related informationHardware RequirementsVirtual Private Clusters and Cloudera SDXParent topic: Cluster hardware selection best practices