Operating system best practicesCloudera Docs
Operating system best practices
Read about the operating system best practices.
Cloudera supports running the platform only on Linux. Supported distributions include Red Hat
   Enterprise LInux, Ubuntu, and Suse. Refer to the Support Matrix for specific OS version details. To receive
   support from Cloudera, a supported version of the operating system must be in use. The
   Requirements and Supported Versions guide lists the supported operating systems for each version
   of Cloudera Manager and CDP Runtime.
Review the planning information before installing CDP Private Cloud Base.
See Runtime cluster hosts and role assignments for service layout guidelines.

Related informationCDP Private Cloud Base Requirements and Supported
                            VersionsBefore You InstallRuntime Cluster Hosts and Role AssignmentsHostname naming conventionCloudera recommends using a hostname convention that allows for easy recognition of   roles and/or physical connectivity. This is especially important for configuring rack awareness   within Cloudera Manager.Hostname resolutionCloudera recommends using DNS for hostname resolution. The usage of /etc/hosts becomes     cumbersome quickly, and is routinely the source of hard-to-diagnose problems.Functional accountsCloudera Manager and CDP Private Cloud Base use dedicated functional accounts for the   associated daemon processes. By default, these accounts are created as local accounts on every   machine in the cluster that needs them if they do not already exist (locally or from a directory   service, such as LDAP).Time and dateAll machines in the cluster need to have the same time and date settings, including time     zones. Use of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) is recommended. Many cluster services are     sensitive to time (For example HBase, Kudu, and ZooKeeper) and troubleshooting is easier if time     is consistent across all hosts.Name service cachingCloudera recommends that you enable name service caching, particularly for clusters that   use non-local Hadoop functional accounts, such as the hdfs and yarn users. This becomes critical   in the case where the latter is combined with using Kerberos. Many difficult-to-diagnose problems   can arise when name service lookups time out or fail during heavy cluster utilization.SELinuxCDP Private Cloud Base is supported on platforms with Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux)   enabled in permissive mode. However Cloudera recommends SELinux be disabled on all machines in the   Hadoop cluster until the cluster is up and running.IPv6Hadoop and other components in the platform do not support IPv6. IPv6 configurations   should be removed, and IPv6-related services must be stopped.Host-based firewallsCloudera recommends disabling host-based firewalls on the cluster, until the cluster is   up and running. Many problems that are difficult to diagnose result from incorrect or conflicting   host-based firewall entries that interfere with normal cluster communication. Startup servicesAs with any production server, unused services that have been enabled by default during     startup should be removed or disabled.Process memoryThe memory on each node is allocated to the various Hadoop processes. This   predictability reduces the chance of Hadoop processes inadvertently running out of memory and   paging to disk, which in turn leads to severe degradation in performance.Kernel and OS tuningThe Cloudera Runtime platform depends on a tuned underlying host operating system (OS)   for optimal performance. Cloudera suggests setting the vm.swappiness and transparent hugepage   compaction kernel parameters.Swapiness parameter configurationThe kernel parameter that determines the tendency of the kernel to swap pages in and out   of the main memory is vm.swappiness. By default, on RHEL 7 and variants, the value is set to 60   (range 0-99). This is not appropriate for Hadoop clusters. This needs to be tuned down to 1 to   avoid unnecessary page outs and long garbage collection pauses. FilesystemsIn Linux, there are several choices for formatting and organizing drives. However, only   a few choices are optimal for Hadoop.Parent topic: Infrastructure