CDP Private Cloud Base Reference Architecture: AbstractCloudera Docs
CDP Private Cloud Base Reference Architecture: Abstract
The Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) Private Cloud Base Reference Architecture is a
  high-level design and best-practices guide for deploying CDP Private Cloud Base in customer data
  centers.
CDP Private Cloud Base is the on-premises version of the Cloudera Data Platform. This new
   product combines the best of Cloudera Enterprise Data Hub and Hortonworks Data Platform
   Enterprise along with new features and enhancements across the stack. This unified distribution
   is a scalable and customizable platform where you can securely run many types of workloads.
CDP Private Cloud Base supports a variety of hybrid solutions where compute tasks are separated
   from data storage and where data can be accessed from remote clusters. This hybrid approach
   provides a foundation for containerized applications by managing storage, table schema,
   authentication, authorization, and governance.
CDP Private Cloud Base comprises of a variety of components such as Apache HDFS, Apache Hive 3,
      Apache HBase, and Apache Impala, along with many other services for specialized workloads. You
      can select any combination of these services to create clusters that address your business
      requirements and workloads. Several pre-configured packages of services are also available for
      common workloads. These include:
Data Engineering: Ingest, transform, and analyze dataServices: HDFS, YARN, YARN Queue
            Manager, Ranger, Atlas, Hive metastore, Hive on Tez, Spark, Oozie, Hue, and Data
            Analytics Studio (DAS)
Data Mart: Browse, query, and explore your data in an interactive wayServices: HDFS,
            YARN, YARN Queue Manager, Ranger, Atlas, Hive metastore, Impala, and Hue
Operational Database: Low latency writes, reads, and persistent access to data for
          Online Transactional Processing (OLTP) use cases Services: HDFS, Ranger, Atlas, and
            HBase

Installing a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster involes installing a parcel called Cloudera Runtime
      that contains all of the services and installing certain powerful tools to manage, govern, and
      secure your cluster. For a complete list of the included components, see Cloudera Runtime Component Versions.
noteCloudera Reference Architecture guides illustrate sample cluster
      configurations and certified partner products. The reference architecture guides are not
      replacements for official statements of supportability. They provide guidance to assist with
      deployment and sizing options. Statements regarding supported configurations in the reference
      architecture guides are informational and should be cross-referenced with the latest
        documentation.CDP Private Cloud architecture might significantly affect the node and
        network sizing considerations. This reference architecture is appropriate for aggregated
        workload clusters running Cloudera Runtime. 

Related informationCDP Private Cloud Base OverviewCDP Private Cloud Base Runtime DocumentationCloudera Reference Architecture DocumentationCDP Release NotesCloudera Services & Support