Data density per driveCloudera Docs
Data density per drive
Hard drives come in many sizes today. Popular drive sizes are 1-4 TB, although larger
  drives are more common now. When picking a drive size, consider the cost per TB, replication storm
  in case of drive failure, and cluster performance. 

Lower Cost Per TB: The larger the drive, the cheaper the cost per TB, which makes
    for lower TCO.
Replication Storms: Larger drive means drive failures will produce larger
    re-replication storms, which can take longer and saturate the network while impacting in-flight
    workloads.
Cluster Performance: In general, drive size has little impact on cluster
    performance. The exception is when drives have different read/write speeds and a use case that
    leverages this gain. MapReduce is designed for long sequential reads and writes, so latency
    timings are generally not as important. HBase can potentially benefit from faster drives, but
    that is dependent on a variety of factors, such as HBase access patterns and schema design; this
    also implies acquisition of more nodes. Impala and Cloudera Search workloads can also
    potentially benefit from faster drives, but for those applications the ideal architecture is to
    maintain as much data in memory as possible.

Cloudera does not support more than 100 TB per HDFS data node. You can use 12 x 8 TB
   spindles or 24 x 4 TB spindles. Cloudera does not support drives larger than 8 TB for HDFS
   data.
noteLarger disks offer increased capacity but not increased I/O
   throughput. Clusters with larger disks can easily result in capacities exceeding 100 TB
   per-worker, contributing to replication storms mentioned above. Clusters with larger disks that
   observe the 100 TB limit end up having fewer spindles which reduces HDFS throughput.
importantRunning CDP Private Cloud Base on storage platforms
   other than direct-attached physical disks can provide suboptimal performance. Cloudera Runtime
   and the majority of the Hadoop platform are optimized to provide high performance by distributing
   work across a cluster that can utilize data locality and fast local I/O. See the Cloudera Enterprise Storage Device Acceptance Criteria
    Guide for more information about using non-local storage.

Parent topic: Cluster hardware selection best practices