Setting up your CDP pattern infrastructureCloudera Docs
Setting up your CDP pattern infrastructure
Before starting, ensure that your central or departmental IT has onboarded to CDP
        Public Cloud and registered an environment with Cloudera. Business Intelligence at Scale
        pattern leverages Streams Messaging Manager (SMM), Cloudera DataFlow (CDF), Cloudera Data
        Engineering (CDE), and Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) services. You must set up these
        services as part of your infrastructure.
Most steps required to set up your CDP pattern infrastructure should be performed by a
            CDP administrator and require the EnvironmentAdmin CDP role. Since the
            goal of this pattern is to enable self-service DataFlow development, Data Engineering,
            and Data Warehousing, make sure that the IT team has created the necessary users and
            groups, and have granted the required permissions to these users and groups.
When your IT team creates and registers an environment with CDP, it is assumed that they
            create a medium-duty Data Lake to import and manage streaming data in the Streams
            Messaging Data Hub cluster, as well as when running other CDP services.
Before you begin self-service development and infrastructure setup: 
Ensure that you have an available CDP environment
Ensure that you have CDP login credentials
Ensure that you have a running Data Lake
Ensure that your CDP user is synchronized to the CDP Public Cloud
                    environment
Review the AWS environments requirements
                        checklist

For test and development environments, you can set up small to medium sized clusters, and
            scale up for production use.
After you register your environment with CDP, you must also activate entitlements for
            using Unified Analytics and Data Visualization in CDW by contacting your Cloudera
            Account Representative.
The following diagram shows all the Data Services used to implement the Business
            Intelligence at Scale pattern:




Giving access to users and groupsTo access and use the CDP Data Services, you must have the required roles and   permissions. Learn about the various roles that users need to perform specific tasks within the   Business Intelligence at Scale pattern.Setting up the Streams Messaging clusterStreams Messaging provides advanced messaging and real-time processing on streaming data     using Apache Kafka, centralized schema management using Schema Registry, as well as management     and monitoring capabilities powered by Streams Messaging Manager. Learn how to set up a Streams     Messaging cluster in CDP Public Cloud for use with your Business Intelligence at Scale     pattern.Setting up the Cloudera DataFlow serviceIn the Business Intelligence at Scale pattern, Cloudera DataFlow (CDF) provides basic   flow development and streaming data flow organization and management capabilities.Setting up the Cloudera Data Engineering serviceSet up Cloudera Data Engineering in CDP Public Cloud for use with your Business   Intelligence at Scale pattern. In the Business Intelligence at Scale pattern, Data Engineering   provides the streaming and static data processing and transformation capabilities. Setting up Cloudera Data WarehouseIn the Business Intelligence at Scale pattern, Data Warehouse provides ad-hoc data   analytics capabilities and the Data Visualization integration provides visual reporting and   dashboarding capabilities. To set up the CDW service, you must activate an environment and create   an Impala Virtual Warehouse with the Unified Analytics and Data Visualization options enabled. You   can use the default Database Catalog that is created when you activate an environment.