Business Intelligence at Scale use caseCloudera Docs
Business Intelligence at Scale use case
A real-life business narrative enables you to follow and understand the Business Intelligence at Scale CDP pattern. The narrative introduces the key personas at play, establishes
  burning business questions, and sets parameters for the success criteria of the
  pattern.
This is a sample use case. The steps in this pattern can be applied to similar use cases across
   other industries.
The use case: Analyzing the impact of dynamic weather conditions on static inventory
    management for perishable goods
Broger Foods is a mega grocery retail chain, with multiple outlets across the country, selling
    100+ perishable goods. Each year, Broger Foods suffers losses ranging between 30 and 45 million
    dollars due to inventory shrinkage. Damages and spoilage of perishable items in warehouses has
    been identified as a key contributor to the shrinkage. The challenge Broger faces is the
    relatively static inventory management system for perishable goods. Stocks of fresh produce and
    food rot or expire in the warehouses due to intermittent demand and over stocking. Understocking
    is not a viable option due to the competitive nature of the industry, leading to customers
    turning to Hole Foods, a rival retail chain gaining popularity.
The CFO of Broger Foods, Roger Walters has tasked their VP of Analytics, Richard, to
    look into this issue and help solve Broger's supply chain management problem. 

Key business questions

How can Broger Foods optimize its inventory management system to reduce revenue loss and
     prevent food wastage while not loosing customers to its competitors?
How can the BI team at Broger Foods deliver insights at scale?


Solving the problem
Richard formulates two hypotheses to analyze the sales trends. His first hypothesis
    is based on population density of a location and the second one is based on the weather
    conditions. Upon delving deeper using ad-hoc analytics, Richard figured out that there is a
    strong correlation between demand for perishable items in each location and weather conditions
    in that location. To continuously improve Broger’s inventory management process, Richard plans
    to use the location-wise sales information present in Broger's CDP Public Cloud environment
    along with real-time weather information from a weather data provider.
To deliver the insights at scale,
    Richard
    calls for a meeting with Syd (Streaming App Developer), David (Data Engineer), and Nick (Data
    Analyst) to explain his model and what he needs to implement this new inventory forecasting
    model.
To build a streaming pipeline, Richard asks Syd to capture live weather data from
     OpenWeather
    and ingest it into CDP. Syd sets up a data flow that ingests data into CDP in real time.
He then asks David to build an unified data pipeline that aggregates data from each
    stream into two separate tables:

Current weather data. This table captures temperature, humidity, precipitation,
     and pressure.
Historical data for 5 previous days.

David’s pipeline will be triggered to process and aggregate the freshly ingested
    data every hour and update the Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) or Parquet tables in CDW every
    hour.
Now, Nick is tasked to write queries that averages out the weather data from both
    the weather tables and combine it with the location-based sales data for additional analysis. He
    also has to build a dashboard that showcases the variance between item sales and temperature at
    a given store location on a daily basis. The dashboard also shows a 7 day forecast of sales. The
    sales forecast is done on Monday and Friday every week.

Key personas in this use case

Ingest Developer – Develops and explores the data ingest streams
Data Engineer – Prepares the data pipelines, optimizes and aggregrates data for use by
     Analysts
Data Analyst – Analyzes data using queries and by building reports and dashboards
Business stakeholders – Consume analyzed data and visualizations


Success criteria
Rapidly develop and build data streams to deliver business insights at scale by enabling
    self-service DataFlow development, Data Engineering, Data Warehousing, and Business Intelligence
    reporting and dashboarding capabilities.


Parent topic: Introduction to Business Intelligence at Scale