Meeting the prerequisitesCloudera Docs
Meeting the prerequisites
The Business Intelligence at Scale pattern is designed to run on CDP and leverages
    various Cloudera Data Services. You must meet the individual prerequisites for Cloudera DataFlow
    (CDF), Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), and Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Data Services. All
    your users must have the necessary roles and permissions to perform their respective
    tasks.
Prerequisites for using the Business Intelligence at Scale pattern
You have downloaded the pattern artifacts for use throughout the Business Intelligence at Scale pattern steps.You have signed up with openweathermap.org and have obtained their API key for real time
          weather data. This is so that you can stream weather data into Kafka. You have set up the necessary Ranger policies across your data pipeline. You have granted
          a user or group access to:
Kafka
Schema Registry
Cloudera DataFlow
Cloudera Data Engineering
Cloudera Data Warehouse


Prerequisites for using CDF
You have the CDF service enabled and running. You have set up a Streams Messaging cluster in CDP Public Cloud with Kafka
          installed.You have created the required Kafka topics. You have the required schemas managed by Schema Registry.You have set up IDBroker mapping for CDF and CDE to access S3 buckets.

Prerequisites for using CDE
You have created a Data Hub cluster with the Data Engineering cluster definition.You have the CDE experience enabled.You have one Virtual Cluster.You have access control set up for the team. 

Prerequisites for using CDW
You have the CDW experience enabled.You have activated the Unified Analytics and Data Visualization entitlement features
          with help of your Cloudera Account Representative.You have created an Impala Virtual Warehouse with Enable Unified Analytics
           and Enable Data Visualization options.You have the Hive Warehouse Connector installed.


Parent topic: Business Intelligence at Scale steps