Creating a Data Visualization dashboard by importing visual artifactsCloudera Docs
Creating a Data Visualization dashboard by importing visual artifacts
To visualize the correlation and share the insights with your stakeholders, you can
        manually create a dashboard in Cloudera Data Visualization (CDV) or use a visual artifact in
        the form of a JSON file and import it in CDV.
For the Business Intelligence at Scale pattern, use the
            "cdv-dashboard-Effect-of-Weather-on-Sales.json" script provided as part of the download
            package to create the tables required for generating dashboard.

importantYou must have the DWUser role to perform this
                task.


Log in to the CDP web interface.

Go to Data Warehouse.

Locate your Impala Virtual Warehouse and click on Data
                        VIZ.

Click DATA on the main navigation bar.
All Connections and the available
                        Datasets are displayed.

Click on Default Impala VW from the left navigation
                    pane.

Click  at the top of the page and
                    click Import Visual Artifacts.

On the Import Visual Artifacts pop-up, click
                        Choose File and select the file you want to
                    import.

Specify the destination workspace in the Import to
                        Workspace drop-down menu.
By default, Data Visualization imports the visual artifacts into your
                        Private workspace. However, you can choose the Public
                    workspace, or another workspace.

Select Import from the file from the
                        Thumbnail Action drop-down menu.

Click IMPORT and confirm by clicking ACCEPT
                        AND IMPORT.

After the import completes, a success message appears on the
                Import interface. All the artifacts have an assigned ID,
            which are generated by the system, sequentially. Visuals/Dashboards and datasets have
            separate ID queues.
Completing this task for your Business Intelligence at Scale pattern results in a
            dashboard that looks similar to the following example:


Now that you have created your Business Intelligence at
            Scale pattern dashboard, share it with other stakeholders. 
Open your dashboard from the VISUAL interface.
Click the more option and select Get URL.
Copy the URL by right-clicking it and share it with your stakeholders.


Parent topic: Analyzing data and visualizing results using Cloudera Data Warehouse