Multi-AZ deployment on CODCloudera Docs
Multi-AZ deployment on COD
Learn about Multi-AZ (Multiple Availability Zones) deployments and how Cloudera
  Operational Database (COD) ensures high availability and fault tolerance using Multi-AZ
  deployments.
How Multi-AZ deployment enables HBase high availability on AWS

importantMulti-AZ for COD is currently supported only on
     Amazon Web Services (AWS) environments.

 To understand the Multi-AZ deployments on COD, it is important to know how AWS is configured
    across the globe and how it provides the availability of services regardless of your location.
    The AWS cloud is made up of a number of regions, which are physical locations around the world.
    Each AWS region has multiple availability zones (AZs), which act as failure domains, preventing
    small outages from affecting entire regions. Most regions are home to two to three AZs, with
    each AZ providing adequate redundancy within a given region. An AZ is represented by a region
    code followed by a letter identifier; for example, us-west-1a,
     us-west-1b.
However, this redundancy is only applied to the storage layer (S3) and does not exist for
    virtual machines used to build up your workload. If the AZ where your server instances reside is
    having an outage, your services cease to function, because the entire compute infrastructure is
    offline.
A Multi-AZ deployment means that compute infrastructure for HBase’s master and region servers
    are distributed across multiple AZs ensuring that when a single availability zone has an outage,
    only a portion of Region Servers is impacted and clients automatically switch over to the
    remaining servers in the available AZs. Similarly, the backup master (assuming the primary
    master was in the AZ, which is having an outage) automatically takes the role of the failing
    master because it is deployed in a separate AZ from the primary master server. The entire
    process is automatic and requires no setup and management from an user. Such a deployment works
    to ensure an application does not suffer an outage due to the loss of a single AZ.
To understand more on the Multi-AZ support on COD, see this blog, High Availability
     (Multi-AZ) for Cloudera Operational Database.


Related informationHigh Availability (Multi-AZ) for CDP Operational DatabaseAdvantages of Multi-AZ deploymentsUnderstand the single and multiple AWS availability zones that Cloudera Operational Database   (COD) supports along with the advantages of deploying Multi-AZ.How to enable Multi-AZ deployment on CODThe entitlements that you need to access the Multi-AZ on COD and also how you can     disable Multi-AZ on your COD environment.Troubleshooting Multi-AZ deploymentsTroubleshoot various scenarios which you might encounter while deploying Multi-AZ on     your COD environment.Restrictions in Multi-AZ deployment on CODKnow the restrictions while deploying multiple availability zones on your CDP   Operational Database (COD) environment.