COD benefitsCloudera Docs
COD benefits
You deploy COD on a public cloud infrastructure that provides you with capabilities and
  flexibility that your on-premises hardware sometimes cannot offer. Using an existing CDP
  environment, you can quickly create an operational database with a single click. You can launch a
  database with the durable and consistent storage technology you may already be familiar with if
  you have used CDH or HDP, but with none of the legacy complexity.
Data access
Access data stored in COD with the Apache HBase Java API, the Phoenix JDBC driver, or the
    Phoenix thin client JDBC driver. You can also use other CDP components and experiences to help
    you with data ingress.

Cloudera Shared Data Experience (SDX) support
Cloudera SDX Data Lake provides COD with common security, auditing, and lineage capabilities
    used by other CDP experiences. You can pause and resume your COD instances for Research and
    Development environments to optimize cloud cost.

Auto-scaling
Auto-scaling means that the capabilities of your database can grow to automatically handle
    increased load against your database, and shrink automatically to reduce your costs without
    sacrificing availability. COD continuously monitors the services and periodically collects all
    the metrices. COD meets all the latency requirements by analyzing the collected metrices. COD
    also fine-tunes itself to improve performance over time.
COD monitors the underlying the services and automatically scales up or down the services to
    ensure that the latency and RPC metrices are met. COD enables you to create a cluster quickly
    and has auto-scaling to help you with your different workload requirements. For more
    information, see Auto-scaling in public cloud environments.

Auto-healing
COD continuously monitors the clusters and if any failure scenario is encountered, COD
    automatically heals and repairs them. For example, COD monitors the instances on the cluster in
    a CDP environment, and if any instance is broken or missing, COD recreates the instances.


Related informationCloudera Operational Database overviewCloudera Operational Database quick startHDFS overviewIntroduction to Data LakesIntroduction to Data AccessShared Data ExperienceParent topic: Cloudera Operational Database service in the public cloud