Cloudera Operational Database service in the public cloudCloudera Docs
Cloudera Operational Database service in the public cloud
Cloudera Operational Database (COD) is a service that runs on the Cloudera Data
        Platform (CDP). COD enables you to create a new operational database with a single click and
        auto-scales based on your workload.
Cloudera Operational Database delivers a real-time, always available, scalable
            operational database that serves traditional structured data alongside unstructured data
            within a unified operational and warehousing platform.
Cloudera Operational Database is powered by Apache HBase and Apache Phoenix. In Cloudera
            Operational Database, you use Apache HBase as a datastore with HDFS and/or S3 providing
            the storage infrastructure. You have the choice to either develop applications using one
            of the native Apache HBase API, or you can use Apache Phoenix for data access. Apache
            Phoenix is a SQL layer that provides a programmatic ANSI SQL interface. It works on top
            of Apache HBase, and it makes it possible to handle data using standard SQL queries and
            Apache Phoenix commands. You can use Cloudera Operational Database in the public cloud
            or on-premises.
You can access COD from the Cloudera CDP console: https://console.cdp.cloudera.com/. The COD
            experience is a tile that you can click on your CDP console home screen.




Related informationCloudera Operational Database overviewCloudera Operational Database quick startCreate a database using CODCompiling applications for CODCloudera Operational DatabaseCloudera Operational Database quick startIn this quickstart, we would like to guide you through the necessary steps to build and   manage your applications using Cloudera Operational Database (COD).COD benefitsYou deploy COD on a public cloud infrastructure that provides you with capabilities and   flexibility that your on-premises hardware sometimes cannot offer. Using an existing CDP   environment, you can quickly create an operational database with a single click. You can launch a   database with the durable and consistent storage technology you may already be familiar with if   you have used CDH or HDP, but with none of the legacy complexity.