HBase Store File TrackingCloudera Docs
HBase Store File Tracking
Cloudera Operational Database (COD) supports Store File Tracking (SFT) as a
  separate, plugable layer to handle storefile life cycle, and includes the FILE based built-in
  implementation that avoids internal file rename or move operations while managing the
  storefiles.
Cloudera has worked with the Apache HBase project to deliver the first version of this feature
   through HBASE-26067, and has delivered this feature as a part of CDP. 
When using S3 for HBase data, COD can dynamically scale the number of workers based on the
   compute resources required, rather than the workers required to host the data in HDFS. To deliver
   this ability to you in a reasonable timeframe, Cloudera built HBOSS. This feature is the next evolution of HBase using S3 which no
   longer requires the HBOSS solution. The Store File Tracking feature for HBase with
   S3 prevents unwanted I/O due to renames on S3. With HDFS, a rename is a constant-time operation,
   but on S3 a rename requires a full copy of the file. Because of this, using S3 doubles the I/O
   costs for HBase operations like compactions, flushes, and snapshot-based operations.  The
    Store File Tracking feature removes the reliance on renames from HBase internal
   functions that handle user data, which benefits file systems that lack atomic directory rename
   operation, such as S3.
You can set Store File Tracking at the HBase service level using the
    hbase.store.file-tracker.impl property in
    hbase-site.xml file or at the table or column family level by configuring
   TableDescriptor.

noteThis feature is available with limited availability and is not ready
    for production deployment. Cloudera encourages you to explore these limited availability
    features in non-production environments and provide feedback on your experiences.


Store File Tracking usageTo use this feature, you must first contact Cloudera Support or your Cloudera account   team to enable the COD_STOREFILE_TRACKING entitlement in CDP Public Cloud. This   entitlement serves as a process gate to ensure that this feature is not available for production   workloads at this point in time.COD migrationYou can migrate HBase and Phoenix tables from CDH or HDP to COD CDP Public Cloud where     the Store File Tracking (SFT) is enabled.Restrictions in Store File TrackingKnow the current restrictions and caveats while using the Store File    Tracking feature.