Create policiesCloudera Docs
Create policies
Create basic permissions for the DB with two roles: Full Access (Finance) and Read
  Only/Limited Access (Cloudera Staff) with Ranger Policies.
Best practise is to apply policies to roles, for example:

Create Role ClimateAuditor (User role for data) ClimateAdmin (Admin Role)
Admin roles have full control of the ClimateDatabases, can create new tables, add
    columns etc
User roles have read write access to data
Roles can be updated with additional policies and linked to both pre-existing and
    new groups.

Typically Administrators will link these roles to pre-existing Groups that exist in
   the corporate directory to enable existing HR processes to maintain memberships, for example a
   “Finance” group.
Create New Groups and link ClimateAccounting (e.g Composed of individual members such
   as Architects and Engineers), new groups may be project specific.
Ranger RMS function ensures that as well as the Hive Object, the underlying files are
   similarly protected with equivalent file ACLs.
Sync ACLs summarize Ranger RMS features and how to configure.
Migrating from Sentry to Ranger>Ranger policies allowing create privilege
        for Hadoop_SQL databases

Data encrichment
Whilst travel data will be extracted directly from the finance and accounting system, the
    enrichment process will see that data blended with external sources such as aircraft carbon
    emission data, in order to arrive at a more accurate true emissions analytic. Apache NiFi is an
    excellent technology for these types of enrichment pipelines enabling them to be loosely coupled
    whilst retaining regulatory compliance.

Data masking
Ingest from a governed data source requiring masking of certain columns, for example
    an employee's ID which would likely be incorporated into any journey information. (Note we
    capture the EmployeeID as the organization plans to evaluate a policy of budgeting CO2 emissions
    for individuals as part of its ongoing sustainability efforts.)
Read and analytical access via Impala (JDBC/Tableau etc) illustrate permissions and
    connection strings.
To apply a mask we need to create a Ranger policy as follows:
Navigate to Apache Ranger Access Manager > Service Manager and select Add New Policy as follows:




We then create the policy adding the Name (GDPR), Hive Database (carbonAccounting), Table
      (trip), Hive column (employID), Audit Logging (yes), validity.
We then apply to the roles in this case Finance and GDPR.
Select Masking Type, in this case, Redact.



Related informationRanger policies allowing create privilege for Hadoop_SQL databasesParent topic: Basic hive setup