Executive summaryCloudera Docs
Executive summary
This document provides a detailed security reference architecture for Cloudera Private
  Cloud Base and is accompanied by a series of blog posts. The architecture reflects the four
  pillars of security engineering best practice, Perimeter, Data, Access and Visibility. 
The release of CDP Private Cloud Base has seen a number of significant enhancements
   to the security architecture including:


Apache Ranger for security policy management


Updated Ranger Key Management service


This document is intended as a reference guide only and is not a runbook or
   configuration manual. Cloudera recommends that you undertake your own security design activity in
   conjunction with Cloudera Professional Services, and where appropriate conduct third party
   assurances.
Note also that effective security is not just a combination of physical controls and
   system architecture but also organizational best practices around password/credential management,
   joiners-movers-leavers processes, group and privilege management, audit and compliance,
   separation of duties and physical access controls.
Before diving into the technologies it is worth becoming familiar with the key
   security principle of a layered approach that facilitates defense in depth. Each layer is defined
   as follows:





These multiple layers of security are applied in order to ensure the confidentiality,
   integrity and availability of data to meet the most robust of regulatory requirements. CDP
   Private Cloud Base offers 3 levels of security that implement these features


Level
Security
Characteristics


0
Non-secure
No security configured. Non-secure clusters should never be used in
       production environments because they are vulnerable to any and all attacks and
       exploits.


1
Minimal
Configured for authentication, authorization, and auditing. Authentication is
       first configured to ensure that users and services can access the cluster only after proving
       their identities. Next, authorization mechanisms are applied to assign privileges to users
       and user groups. Auditing procedures keep track of who accesses the cluster (and
       how).


2
More
Sensitive data is encrypted. Key management systems handle encryption keys.
       Auditing has been setup for data in the metastore. System metadata is reviewed and updated
       regularly. Ideally, the cluster has been setup so that lineage for any data object can be
       traced (data governance).


3
Most
The secure cluster is one in which all data, both data-at-rest and
       data-in-transit, is encrypted and the key management system is fault-tolerant. Auditing
       mechanisms comply with industry, government, and regulatory standards (PCI, HIPAA, NIST, for
       example), and extend from the Cluster to the other systems that integrate with it. Cluster
       administrators are well-trained, security procedures have been certified by an expert, and
       the cluster can pass technical review.


For the purposes of this document we are going to focus on the most secure level 3
   security.

ArchitectureExplanation and diagram of the layers that are applied in order to ensure the   confidentiality, integrity and availability of data to meet the most robust of regulatory   requirements. AuthenticationOverview of authentication in CDP Private Cloud.EncryptionAn overview of encryption in CDP Private Cloud.