Apache KnoxCloudera Docs
Apache Knox
Apache Knox simplifies access to the cluster Interfaces by providing Single Sign-on for
  CDP Web UIs and APIs by acting as a proxy for all remote access events. Many of these APIs are
  useful for monitoring and issuing on the fly configuration changes. 
As a stateless reverse proxy framework, Knox can be deployed as multiple instances
   that route requests to CDP's REST APIs. It scales linearly by adding more Knox nodes as the load
   increases. A load balancer can route requests to multiple Knox instances.
Knox also intercepts REST/HTTP calls and provides authentication, authorization,
   audit, URL rewriting, web vulnerability removal and other security services through a series of
   extensible interceptor pipelines.
Each CDP cluster that is protected by Knox has its set of REST APIs represented by a
   single cluster specific application context path. This allows the Knox Gateway to both protect
   multiple clusters and present the REST API consumer with a single endpoint for access to all of
   the services required, across the multiple clusters.
In CDP certain providers (sso, pam, admin, manager) and topologies (cdp-proxy,
   cdp-proxy-api) are already pre-configured and are mostly integrated into the configuration UI of
   Cloudera Manager. Furthermore CDP ships with a useful pre-configured home page for users to
   navigate to those services.
The cluster definition is defined within the topology deployment descriptor and
   provides the Knox Gateway with the layout of the cluster for purposes of routing and translation
   between user facing URLs and cluster internals.
Simply by writing a topology deployment descriptor to the topologies directory of the
   Knox installation, a new CDP cluster definition is processed, the policy enforcement providers
   are configured and the application context path is made available for use by API consumers. CDP
   Private Cloud Base comes with a preconfigured topology for all of the various cluster services
   which customers can extend for their environments.

Parent topic: Key security Services