AuthenticationCloudera Docs
Authentication
Overview of authentication in CDP Private Cloud.
Typically a cluster will be integrated with an existing corporate directory,
   simplifying credentials management and align with well established HR procedures for managing and
   maintaining both user and service accounts. Kerberos is used to authenticate all service accounts
   within the cluster with credentials generated in the corporate directory (IDM/AD) and distributed
   by Cloudera Manager. To ensure that these procedures are secured it’s important that all
   interactions between CM, the Corporate Directory and the cluster hosts are encrypted using TLS
   security. Signed Certificates are distributed to each cluster host enabling service roles to
   mutually authenticate. This includes the Cloudera Agent process which will perform an TLS
   handshake with the Cloudera Manager server in order that configuration changes such as the
   generation and distribution of Kerberos credentials are undertaken across an encrypted channel.
   In addition to the CM agent, all the cluster service roles such as Impala Daemons, HDFS worker
   roles and management roles typically use TLS.
Kerberos
With Kerberos enabled, all cluster roles are able to authenticate each other
    providing they have a valid kerberos ticket. The authentication tickets are issued by the KDC,
    typically a local Active Directory Domain Controller, FreeIPA, or MIT Kerberos server with a
    trust established with the corporate kerberos infrastructure, upon presentation of valid
    credentials. Cloudera Manager generates and distributes these credentials to each of the service
    roles using an elevated privilege that is securely maintained within its database. Typically the
    administration privilege will enable the creation and deletion of kerberos principles within a
    specific organisation unit (OU) within the corporate directory (see, Delegating
     Administration by Using OU Objects). Good practice is to first enable TLS security between
    the Cloudera Manager and agents in order to ensure the Kerberos keytab files are transported
    over an encrypted connection.

Impersonalisation
Within a CDP system there are two methods of impersonation that are supported. The
    first is a simple "doAs" system, where certain services are trusted to assert the identity of
    connecting users. For example, Oozie, Hue and Hive are trusted within the CDP environment
    to act on behalf of the user who connected to them - this is known as impersonation and is
    configured by the hadoop.proxyuser.* set of parameters.
This allows, for example, a user to connect to Hue or HiveServer2 (and we trust
    Hue/HiveServer2 to correctly identify that user) and then for Hue/HiveServer2 to act on that
    user's behalf.
Note: When configuring third-party integrations or add-ons, it is possible that they
    will require hadoop.proxyuser.* configurations, so that they can also
    impersonate users that have connected.
The second method is supported by some implementations of Kerberos, is known as
    Constrained Delegation. For further details on constrained delegation, see Accessing Secure
     Cluster from Web Applications.


Related informationDelegating Administration by Using OU ObjectsAccessing Secure Cluster from Web ApplicationsParent topic: Executive summary