Network designCloudera Docs
Network design
In most situations it will be appropriate to place the CDP cluster within a VLAN of its
  own and whitelist a number of ports that will be used for inbound connections. This allows for a
  simplified network configuration for intra-cluster communications, whilst protecting the cluster
  from external access. 
East West traffic on a typical cluster can be extremely high, therefore it’s
   important that a leaf spine network design be used without inferring firewalls between cluster
   nodes and racks in order not to compromise application performance.
In theory, this level of control might not be necessary given that all ports are
   protected by one of the authentication mechanisms specified in Kerberos and Identity, however a
   typical deployment would involve a VLAN.
Isolating Clusters within the same VLAN
note
Note: TSB 2021-544: Microsoft AD November 2021 Security Update
Following the November 2021 Security Update for Active Directory (AD) from
     Microsoft, customers will experience issues with re-generating kerberos credentials due to a
     change in the way service principal name (SPN) alias uniqueness is determined. This will impact
     customer upgrades to CDP. For the latest update on this issue, see the corresponding Knowledge
     article, Cloudera Customer Advisory-544: Microsoft AD November 2021 Security Update.

Due consideration should be given to how to isolate two clusters that have network
    access to each other and are housed in the same Kerberos domain. By default, Hadoop does not
    differentiate between clusters who present the same prefix of a three part Kerberos principal.
    For example, consider the following service principal names:


hdfs/myprodhost1.example.com@EXAMPLEREALM.COM


hdfs/mydevhost1.example.com@EXAMPLEREALM.COM


Using an out of the box configuration, the cluster will extract the first part of
    the SPN (before the / character) and use that as the service shortname, meaning that there is no
    way of differentiating between the hdfs user on a production cluster and that on a development
    cluster.
In order to counteract this, Cloudera recommends using Auth-to-Local rules to
    isolate any clusters that have network connectivity and are in the same realm, or are trusted by
    the cluster. For further information on how to configure Auth-to-Local Rules 
Note: Using Custom Kerberos Principals (see, Customizing Kerberos principals)
    is generally not recommended, as support is limited due to environment specific testing
    required.

Edge and Gateway Roles
In a standard configuration it is recommended that Apache Knox be used as a Gateway
    and Load Balancer for all interactions into the cluster, with the exception of Cloudera Manager
    and SSH access. SSH access should be restricted to administrators only, other than Edge Nodes,
    to which end users may be permitted non-root access.


Related informationCloudera Customer Advisory-544: Microsoft AD November 2021 Security UpdateCustomizing Kerberos principals