ArchitectureCloudera Docs
Architecture
Explanation and diagram of the layers that are applied in order to ensure the
  confidentiality, integrity and availability of data to meet the most robust of regulatory
  requirements. 
Security architecture improvements
To comply with the regulatory standards of a level 3 implementation, customers will
    create network topologies that ensure only privileged administrators are able to access core CDP
    services with applications, analysts and developers limited to appropriate gateway services such
    as Hue and appropriate management and monitoring web interfaces. The addition of Apache Knox
    significantly simplifies the provisioning of secure access with users benefiting from robust
    single sign on. Apache Ranger consolidates security policy management with tag based access
    controls, robust auditing and integration with existing corporate directories.

Logical Architecture
The cluster architecture can be split across a number of zones as illustrated in the
    following diagram:





Outside the perimeter are source data and applications, the gateway zones are where
    administrators and applications will interact with the core cluster zones where the work is
    performed. These are then supported by the data tier where configuration and key material is
    maintained. Services in each zone use a combination of kerberos and transport layer security
    (TLS) to authenticate connections and APIs calls between the respective host roles, this allows
    authorization policies to be enforced and audit events to be captured. Cloudera Manager will
    generate credentials either directly against a local KDC or via an intermediary in the corporate
    directory. Similarly, Cloudera Manager Auto-TLS enables per host certificates to be generated
    and signed by established certificate authorities. If necessary, authority can be delegated to
    Cloudera Manager to sign the certificates in order to simplify the implementation. The following
    sections go into more detail as to how each aspect can be implemented.


Parent topic: Executive summary