Apache RangerCloudera Docs
Apache Ranger
Apache Ranger is a framework to enable, monitor and manage comprehensive data security
  across the platform.
Apache Ranger is used for creating and managing policies to access data and other
   related objects for all services in the CDP stack and features a number of improvements over
   earlier versions:


Prior to CDP, Ranger only supported users and groups in policies. In CDP, Ranger
     has also added the 'role' functionality that existed in Apache Sentry previously. A role is a
     collection of rules for accessing a given object. Ranger gives you the option to assign these
     roles to specific groups. Ranger policies can then be set for roles or directly on groups or
     individual users, and then enforced consistently across all the CDP services.


One of the key changes introduced in CDP for former CDH users is the replacement of
     Apache Sentry with Apache Ranger which offers a richer range of plugins for YARN, Kafka, Hive,
     HDFS and Solr services.HDP customers will benefit from the new Apache Ranger RMS feature which
     synchronises Hive table-level authorisations with the HDFS file system previously available in
     Apache Sentry (see, An Introduction to Ranger RMS). 


More broadly Apache Ranger provides: 


Centralized Administration interface and API


Standardized authentication method across all components


Supports multiple authorization methods such as Role based access control and
     attribute based access control


Centralized auditing of admin and audit actions


Apache Ranger features a number of components:


Administration portal UI and API


Ranger Plugins, lightweight Java plugins for each component designed to pull in
     policies from the central admin service and stored locally. Each user request evaluated against
     the policy capturing the request and shipping via a separate audit event to the Ranger audit
     server.


User Group Sync, synchronization of users and group memberships from UNIX and LDAP
     and stored by the portal for policy definition


Customers will typically deploy SSSD or similar such technology in order to resolve
   at the OS a user's group memberships. The Ranger Audit server will then index those events using
   the cluster’s Solr Infrastructure service to facilitate analysis and reporting.
noteNote: Take care with the Hive privilege synchronizer. This runs within Hive and will
   periodically check permissions every 5 minutes for every Hive object which leads to a larger Hive
   memory requirements and poor Hive metastore performance where there are many thousands of Hive
   Objects. The feature is only required where customers are using Beeline or using SQL-based
   statements to manipulate and review grants. Good practice would be to at least slow down the rate
   of synchronization hive.privilege.synchronizer.interval=3600 (Default is 720) to check every hour
   or disable completely and use the Ranger UI to manage policies.
Security Zones
Security zones enable you to arrange your Ranger resource and tag based policies
    into specific groups in order that administration can be delegated. For example in a specific
    security zone:


Security zone "finance" includes all content in a "finance" Hive database.


Users and groups can be designated as administrators in the security zone.


Users are allowed to set up policies only in security zones in which they are
      administrators.


Policies defined in a security zone are applicable only for resources of that
      zone.


A zone can be extended to include resources from multiple services such as HDFS,
      Hive, HBase, Kafka, etc., allowing administrators of a zone to set up policies for resources
      owned by their organization across multiple services.




Related informationAn Introduction to Ranger RMSParent topic: Key security Services