Management of Knox shared providers in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Management of Knox shared providers in Cloudera Manager 
Information on CDP Private Cloud topology management for Knox from within Cloudera
  Manager.

Modifying the SSO authentication provider used by the UIs using the Knox SSO capabilities,
    such as the Admin and Home Page UIs.
Modifying the API authentication provider used by predefined topologies, such as
     admin, metadata or cdp-proxy-api.
Adding/modifying new/existing shared provider configurations.
Saving aliases using a new Knox Gateway command.


Configure Apache Knox authentication for PAMKnox authentication configurations for PAM in Cloudera Manager. PAM is the default SSO     authentication provider in CDP Private Cloud.Configure Apache Knox authentication for AD/LDAPKnox authentication configurations for LDAP and AD in Cloudera Manager. Configure Apache Knox Authentication for SAMLKnox authentication configurations for SAML in Cloudera Manager. Knox     uses pac4j provider for SAML.Add a new shared provider configurationProvider configurations are definitions of authentication and authorization controls         for services proxied by Knox, which may be referenced by one or more         descriptors.TLS Mutual AuthenticationMutual authentication with TLS provides the Knox gateway with the means to establish a strong trust relationship with another party. This is especially useful when applications that act on behalf of end-users send requests to Knox.  Management of existing Apache Knox shared providersYou can add, modify, or disable an existing shared provider configuration in Apache     Knox via Cloudera Manager.Saving aliasesThere is a new command available for the Knox Gateway role which allows end-users to   save an alias=password pair to an arbitrary number of topologies on each host   where an instance of the Knox Gateway is installed without the need of running the Knox CLI tool   manually.Configuring Kerberos authentication in Apache Knox shared providersAn example of how to add the kerberos-auth configuration provider from Cloudera             Manager.