Dynamically Generating Knox Topology FilesCloudera Docs
Dynamically Generating Knox Topology Files
Topology files can be dynamically generated from combinations of Provider Configurations
  and Descriptors, which can be defined using the Knox Admin UI.
You can access the Knox Admin UI from
     https://KNOX_GATEWAY_HOST:PORT/GATEWAY_PATH),
   e.g. https://localhost:8443/gateway/homepage/home.
In the early days of Knox, you enabled Knox proxy by editing topology files manually. Topology
   files consisted of 3 things:
Provider configurations: e.g., authentication, federation, authentication, authorization,
     identity assertion, etc
HA provider
Services: component URLs you want to proxy 
You configured each of these things in every topology file.
Most recently, topology files are dynamically generated from combinations of Provider
   Configurations and Descriptors, defined using the Knox Admin UI. Additionally, these provider
   configurations and descriptors are now shared- you no longer have to specify configurations (e.g.
   authentication provider, identity assertion provider, or authorization provider) for each
   topology file- you define a Provider Configuration or Descriptor and they are shared across all
   topologies you choose. The Admin UI consists of 3 sections:
Provider Configurations: A named set of providers, e.g., authentication, federation,
     authentication, authorization, identity assertion, etc. Provider configurations can be
     shared across descriptors/topologies.
Descriptors: References the Provider Configurations to declare the policy (authentication,
     authorization, identity assertion, etc) that goes along with proxying that cluster. Descriptors
      cannot be shared across topologies; Descriptors and topologies are 1-to-1.
Topologies: Dynamically generated based on the Provider Configurations and Descriptors you
     define.

However- the topologies that are managed by Cloudera Manager should be read-only. Within an
   Cloudera Manager-managed cluster, the Knox Admin UI is to be used for creating additional
   topologies. When a Knox instance is not managed by Cloudera Manager, all topology management will
   be done via the Knox Admin UI.

Parent topic: Apache Knox Overview