



























































Real Time Streaming Analytics with Cloudera Data Flow (CDF)






























X
Register now to access all assets on Streaming Analytics











                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                
























































Go back







 




   


Forrester Infographic: Data Stream Processing & Analytics Challenges
E-Book: Apache Nifi for Dummies
Blog: Next Generation Streaming Analytics
Customer Story: Santander UK
Webinar On Demand: Challenges in Streaming Architectures
Webinar On Demand: Introducing Cloudera Streaming Analytics

Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy











Welcome to Real Time Streaming Analytics with Cloudera Data Flow (CDF)






The biggest challenge in getting streaming data insights is acquiring the data—quickly, securely, and prioritized for analysis with clear traceability. Cloudera DataFlow (CDF), is a scalable, real-time streaming analytics platform that ingests, curates, and analyzes data for key insights and immediate actionable intelligence. DataFlow addresses the key challenges enterprises face with data-in-motion:

Processing real-time data streaming at high volume and high scale

Tracking data provenance and lineage of streaming data

Managing and monitoring edge applications and streaming sources













 



 





Take the next step




 
Contact Sales






 
Call (888) 789-1488






 
Downloads











Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 





