List of required configuration parameters for the JDBC to S3/ADLS ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
List of required configuration parameters for the
      JDBC to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow
When deploying the JDBC to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow, you have to provide the following parameters. Use the
  information you collected in Prerequisites.
Table 1. JDBC to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow configuration parameters

Parameter name
Description



CDP Workload User
Specify the CDP machine user or workload username that you want to use to authenticate
       to the object stores. Ensure this user has the appropriate access rights to the object store
       locations in Ranger or IDBroker.


CDP Workload User Password
Specify the password of the CDP machine user or workload user you are using to
       authenticate against the object stores (via IDBroker).


CSV Delimiter
If your output data is CSV, specify the delimiter here.


Data Output Format
Specify the desired format for your output data. You can use "CSV", "JSON" or "AVRO"
       with this ReadyFlow.


Database Connection URL
Specify the JDBC database connection URL used to connect to your source database. May
       contain database system name, host, port, database name and some parameters. The exact syntax
       of a database connection URL is specified by your DBMS. For example,
       jdbc:mysql://hostname:port/database for MySQL databases.


Database Driver
Upload the database driver jar file for your source database.


Database Driver Class Name
Specify the source database driver class name. For example, com.mysql.jdbc.Driver for
       MySQL databases.


Database Incremental Fetch Column
Specify the column that is to be used to track state as new data lands in the source
       table.


Database Password
Specify the source database password.


Database Table Name
Specify the source database table name.


Database User
Specify the source database user.


Destination S3 or ADLS Path
Specify the name of the destination S3 or ADLS path you want to write to. Make sure
       that the path starts with "/".


Destination S3 or ADLS Storage Location
Specify the name of the destination S3 bucket or ADLS Container you want to write
        to.For S3, enter a value in the form: s3a://[Destination S3 Bucket]For ADLS, enter
        a value in the form: abfs://[Destination ADLS File System]@[Destination ADLS Storage
        Account].dfs.core.windows.net


Filter Rule
Specify the filter rule expressed in SQL to filter database records. Records matching
       the filter are written to the destination. The default value forwards all records.



Related conceptsPrerequisitesRelated informationDeploying a ReadyFlow