System metrics for NiFi flow deploymentsCloudera Docs
System metrics for NiFi flow deployments
Cloudera DataFlow provides comprehensive NiFi cluster-specific metrics on core
    allocation, disk capacity utilisation, CPU utilisation, and disk usage. You can investigate
    these system metrics to identify and resolve performance issues related to your NiFi
    deployments.
Everytime you deploy and run a NiFi flow, you create a NiFi cluster. The system
      metrics are details about the NiFi cluster that provide an opportunity to understand the flow
      deployment status.
These metrics help you to understand the performance of a flow. For example, a flow
      running at 50% CPU utilization may be an expected (and fine) behavior compared to another flow
      running at 5% CPU utilization. You are the best judge for how your flow should perform and
      what thresholds for these metrics dictate that. One metric that you specifically monitor is
      CPU Utilization. If the value goes above the threshold of 80%, you must scale the cluster.
You can set the key performance indicators (KPIs), with knowledge of your flows,
      which allow alerts to be sent if certain metrics meet a particular threshold. You might detect
      situations that are not errors but notes on the state of the system that you need to be aware
      of. For example, a cluster size reaching the maximum value that is allowed.
The values you measure for metrics depend on the hardware chosen during the flow
      deployment. For example, the NiFi node size you select (Extra Small to Large) during the flow
      deployment. These selections enable a deployment to access CPU, memory, or storage which can
      cause numbers measured to change. 
In the Cloudera DataFlow web interface, go to Dashboard and click a
      deployment to view core allocation, disk capacity, CPU utilization, and disk usage metrics on
      the System Metrics tab of the Deployment Details
      pane.







Core AllocationDescription: The number of cores that are
            currently allocated to NiFi containers for the
              deployment.Unit:
              vCoresFunctionality: Monitors current and average core
            allocation. You can move your mouse on the graph and get core allocation details for a
            specific point in time.Importance: Helps to assess if the
            number of cores a flow is using is within the expected
              range.Example: Together with the size selected when the
            NiFi flow is deployed, the metric reflects the real size of the cluster in terms of
            allocated CPU resources. For example, when Extra Small size is selected, each NiFi node
            is capped at 2 vCores. Therefore, a value of 6 means 3 NiFi nodes are currently running
            to execute the flow. The value fluctuates when the NiFi cluster is auto-scaled up or
            down.
Disk CapacityDescription: Percentage of total allocated
            storage capacity that is being used by the
            deployment.Unit:
              PercentageFunctionality: Monitors current and average
            disk capacity. You can move your mouse on the graph and get disk capacity details of a
            specific point in time.Importance: Helps to identify if a
            disk is being under utilized or over utilized; however, again it depends on the expected
            behavior of a flow.Example: This value reflects the
            storage pressure of the NiFi flow, including Content,
              Provence, and Flow File repositories. A high
            percentage can indicate that the traffic is being set in the NiFi cluster, for example,
            due to failure in delivering the output to the destination system.
CPU UtilizationDescription: The ratio of the total CPU time
            consumed by the deployment in the past 5 minutes over the total allocated CPU quota for
            the deployment.Unit:
              PercentageFunctionality: Monitors current and average
            CPU utilization. You can move your mouse on the graph and get the CPU utilization
            details for a specific point in time.Importance: Helps to
            identify if a flow is using more or less CPU than
              expected.Example: The value indicates the computation
            pressure of the NiFi cluster running the deployed flow. In a typical case, when
            auto-scaling is enabled and the CPU utilization reaches the threshold internally defined
            by Cloudera DataFlow, more NiFi instances are brought up and join the cluster to share
            the workload, before the value starts dropping.
Disk UsageDescription: The total amount of bytes saved on the
            storage volumes of the deployment.Unit: GB, MB, and so on
            depending on the scale of the valueFunctionality: Monitors
            current and average disk usage. You can move your mouse on the graph and get the disk
            usage details for a specific point in time.Importance:
            Provides visibility of how much disk is being used by the deployment or Kubernetes node.
            It can be used to assess what is utilizing a lot of
              space.Example: Enables you to know the current absolute
            amount of on-disk data of the whole deployment, which may indicate how long an
            offloading can take. 



Parent topic: Monitor performance of deployments