Monitor health of deploymentsCloudera Docs
Monitor health of deployments
You can monitor the health of your deployments in the Dashboard
    page of the Cloudera DataFlow UI. By monitoring health of deployments, you can track the status
    of the deployment, the amount of data received and sent by the deployment.
You can perform the following tasks in the Dashboard page:

Monitor health of deployments
Filter and sort deployments
Fetch metrics details for deployments
Refresh deployments data






Monitor health of deployments
Monitor the status, amount of data sent and received details for your deployments. You can
        also view the details of the amount of data sent and received in a graphical format.
You can monitor the following details of your deployments in the
          Dashboard page:
StatusShows status of your deployments including Good Health, Terminating,
              Updating, Unknown, Deploying, Suspended, Concerning Health, and Bad Health. You can
              also click Status to sort the status of your deployments as
              required.
NameShows name of your deployments. You can also click Name
              to sort the names of your deployments alphabetically if required.
Data ReceivedShows the amount of data that your deployments receive from the
              source. You can also click Data Received to sort your
              deployments in increasing or decreasing amounts of data received by the
              deployments.
Data SentShows the amount of data that your deployments send to the targets. You
              can also click Data Sent to sort your deployments in increasing
              or decreasing amounts of data sent by the deployments.
Received/Sent Stream GraphShows graphical representation of data received and sent
              by your deployments.


Filter and sort deployments
Filter the deployments according to your requirement.
You can filter your deployments by:
StatusStatus of deployments can be of many types including Bad Health, Concerning
              Health, Good Health, Deploying, Starting, Suspending, Suspended, Terminating, Unknown,
              and Updating. By default, all statuses are selected.
EnvironmentsYou can either select all environments or a specific environment which is
              enabled. By default, all environments are selected. 
DeploymentsYou can use this filter to search your flow deployments by name. You can
              filter your deployments by either selecting all deployments or a specific deployment.
              By default, all deployments are selected.
Processor TypesYou can filter your deployments by either selecting all processor types
              or a specific processor. Processors can be of many types including Apache, Avro, CSV,
              JSON, Kafka, and SQL. By default, all processor types are selected.

Click Reset to set the filter options to their default
    values.
You can sort deployments by:
Status
Name
Data Received
Data Sent

Click on the column name to sort by ascending or descending order.
Use the Items per page option, at the bottom of the screen, to display
    the desired number of deployments in a page.

Fetch metrics details for deployments
The Metrics Window option enables you to fetch details for your
        deployments for a specified time. For example, if you select 30 minutes in the Metrics
        Window, the Cloudera DataFlow UI displays details of your deployments for the last 30
        minutes, and if you select 1 hour, the UI displays details of your deployments for the last
        one hour. You can also select 12 or 24 hours based on your requirement.

Refresh deployments data
By default, every 30 seconds all data for your deployments are updated. Click the circle-arrow
    icon to refresh the data.


