Use KPIs to track the processing latency of streaming dataCloudera Docs
Use KPIs to track the processing latency of streaming data
Learn how to use KPI to track the processing latency of streaming data.
Your flow starts reading data from an external system and
            ends writing the data to some other place. In between all processing is done. A common
            question or a common performance indicator that you want to track might be how long does
            it take for the data to be processed. 
You can achieve your goal by selecting appropriate KPI
            scope and metric while deploying your flow in Cloudera DataFlow. Select
                Processor KPI scope and Average Lineage
                Duration metric to track. The Average Lineage Duration metric tracks the
            time elapsed between when the original source data was received and the time when the
            processing event occurred. noteAverage Lineage Duration does not always measure
                processing latency of a flowfile from the very first processor to the last
                    processor.If you have a simple NiFi flow, where none of the processors
                    creates a new flowfile in between, Average Lineage
                        Duration measures the processing latency of the flowfile from
                    the first to the last processor.But, if a processor in your NiFi flow
                    creates a new flowfile in between, Average Lineage
                        Duration measures the processing latency from that very
                    processor, where a new flow file is created, to the last
            processor.
You must have reached the Add New KPI screen while deploying
            your flow in Cloudera DataFlow.

Select Processor as the KPI scope.

Select the processor, you want to monitor, in the Processor
                        Name field.

Select Average Lineage Duration as the metric to
                    track.

Configure the alert settings as per your requirement or when you want to be
                    alerted.

Click Apply.
Similarly, you can set other metrics and alerts as per your
                    requirement.


In this example, Processor KPI scope and
                        Average Lineage Duration metric to track are
                    selected. No alert is set here.



Parent topic: Working with KPIs