Managing costs in the public cloud environments for Cloudera Data WarehouseCloudera Docs
Managing costs in the public cloud environments for Cloudera Data Warehouse
Cost optimization in cloud environments is top priority for enterprises. Eighty percent of
    cloud costs are determined by the number of compute instances you use. Compute instances can
    be virtual machines or containers. Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud and your cloud
    provider give you ways to monitor and control the cloud resources you use.
Setting resource limits with Cloudera Data Warehouse service
Cloudera Data Warehouse service provides the following ways to manage your cloud costs:

Choose Virtual Warehouse size: Virtual Warehouse size
          specifies the number of executor nodes used by the Virtual Warehouse,
          which translates to compute instances. Before you create a Virtual
          Warehouse, determine the number of concurrent queries or users
          your Virtual Warehouse must serve during peak periods. This
          information helps you determine what size of Virtual Warehouse you
          need. Choose the size based on the number of nodes you typically use
          for clusters in an on-premises deployment.
Set auto-scaling thresholds: When you create a Virtual
          Warehouse, you can define auto-scaling, which sets limits on how many
          cloud resources can be consumed to meet workload demands. In addition,
          you can also set the maximum time a Virtual Warehouse idles before
          shutting down. Both settings ensure that you only use cloud resources
          that you need when you need them, helping you to manage your costs in
          the cloud.


Setting resource limits with your cloud provider
Another way to manage your cloud costs is by setting effective resource limits with your
        cloud provider. Cloud providers offer ways to set the overall limit on numbers of virtual
        machines or containers that can be used for your account. You can also save on cloud expenses
        by shutting down resources when they are not in use. CDP has built-in functionality to shut
        down cloud resources when not in use. If necessary, you can also terminate resources to save
        on costs related to disk snapshots, reserved IP addresses, and so on. In addition, cloud
        providers might offer tools to help you save. For example, AWS offers AWS Trusted Advisor
        and CloudWatch. Microsoft Azure offers Azure Cost Management and Azure Advisor.

Always active, shared services
Several shared service nodes are always active in a Cloudera Data Warehouse environment. A
        number of infrastructure pods are required at all times, and sufficient nodes must be
        deployed for these pods. The following table lists actions and the impact of those actions
        on shared service nodes.

Action
Impact on Shared Services Nodes
Comments



Activating a Cloudera Data Warehouse environment
Yes
Starts with minimum 3 nodes


Creating Database Catalog
Maybe
It depends on the pod placement logic


Creating Impala/Hive Virtual Warehouse
Yes
This also adds more shared service pods to support compute nodes
                  (weavenet, kube-proxy etc.)


Deleting Impala/Hive Virtual Warehouse
Maybe

It depends on the pod placement logic.
“Cooldown” period also plays a role.



Compute autoscaling
Yes
Autoscaling compute nodes will add hue, hs2 pods.


The following scaling factors also affect shared services nodes. 
The number of Virtual Warehouses you run increases the required shared service
            resources. 
The T-shirt you set for Virtual Warehouses and autoscaling on executors has impact as
            shown in the following example:Hue instance (part of shared service) count
              = (query-executors/10) + 1 => from 2 to 10 query executors then 1 Hue
              server Pod instance,=> from 10 to 19 query executors then 2 Hue
              server Pod instances=> from 20 to 29 query executors then 3 Hue
              server Pod instances



Related informationAWS Trusted AdvisorAWS CloudWatchAzure Cost ManagementAzure AdvisorAdding a new Virtual WarehouseTuning auto-scaling for Virtual Warehouses