Submitting Spark applications using LivyCloudera Docs
Submitting Spark applications using Livy
Apache Livy is a Spark service that allows local and remote
    applications to interact with Apache Spark over a REST interface. 

You can use Livy to submit and manage Spark jobs on a cluster. Livy extends Spark
            capabilities, offering additional multi-tenancy and security features. Applications can
            run code inside Spark without needing to maintain a local Spark context.
Features include the following:


Jobs can be submitted from anywhere, using the REST API.


Livy supports user impersonation: the Livy server submits jobs on behalf of the
                  user who submits the requests. Multiple users can share the same server ("user
                  impersonation" support). This is important for multi-tenant environments, and it
                  avoids unnecessary permission escalation.


Livy supports security features such as Kerberos authentication and wire
                  encryption.


REST APIs are backed by SPNEGO authentication, which the requested user
                        should get authenticated by Kerberos at first.


RPCs between Livy Server and Remote SparkContext are encrypted with
                        SASL.


The Livy server uses keytabs to authenticate itself to Kerberos.




Livy supports programmatic and interactive access to Spark with
        Scala. For example, you can:


Use an interactive notebook to access Spark through Livy.


Develop a Scala, Java, or Python client that uses the Livy API. The Livy REST API
                  supports full Spark functionality including SparkSession, and SparkSession with
                  Hive enabled.


Run an interactive session, provided by spark-shell, PySpark, or SparkR REPLs.


Submit batch applications to Spark.


Code runs in a Spark context, either locally or in YARN; YARN cluster mode is
            recommended.

Using Livy with SparkUsing Livy with interactive notebooksUsing the Livy API to run Spark jobsUsing the Livy API to run Spark jobs is similar to using the original Spark API. Running an interactive session with the Livy APISubmitting batch applications using the Livy API