Getting Started with the Alerts User InterfaceCloudera Docs
Getting Started with the
      Alerts User Interface
The Alerts user interface provides mechanisms for viewing alerts, searching and
      filtering alerts, grouping alerts to facilitate management, and changing alert status. The
      Alerts user interface defaults to displaying the Alerts table when first opened.You can use the Alerts user interface tool bar to perform searches and manage the Alerts UI
         settings. Table 1. Alerts UI Tool Bar

Tools
Description



Search field
You can search for alerts using the search bar above the Alerts table.
                        The search tool follows the Lucene syntax which supports a rich query
                        language. 


Settings
You can configure the table row settings in the Alerts table to modify
                        the appearance of the Alerts table and the refresh rate.


Pause alerts
You can pause the Alerts UI polling while you adjust settings or focus
                        on current alerts.


Time range

You can set the time range over which to perform alert polling or choose
                           one of the predefined quick ranges.


You can use the Alerts table to view and manage alerts:Table 2. Alerts Table

Tools
Description



Alerts table
The Alerts table displays the alerts generated by the CCP framework. The
                        Alerts UI polls for alerts and refreshes the Alerts table at an interval
                        that you can configure.


Filters
The Alerts UI currently provides five filters that you can apply to
                        alerts. You can use these filters to refine the list of alerts and collect
                        additional information on the alerts. 


Alert status
You can change the status of or dismiss an alert. 


Group By
You can group alerts so you can apply filters, status, etc. on multiple
                        alerts at a time.


Meta Alerts

The meta alert feature enables you to create a system entity that
                           contains a collection of filtered alerts.



