User management in HueCloudera Docs
User management in Hue
Hue is a gateway to CDP cluster services and both have completely separate permissions.
    Being a Hue superuser does not grant access to HDFS, Hive, and so on.
Users who log on to the Hue UI must have permission to use Hue and to each CDP service
      accessible within Hue. 
A common configuration is for Hue users to be authenticated with an LDAP server and
        CDP users with Kerberos. These users can differ. For example, CDP services do not
      authenticate each user who logs on to Hue. Rather, they authenticate Hue and trust that
      Hue has authenticated its users. 
Once Hue is authenticated by a service such as Hive, Hue
     impersonates the user requesting use of that service. For example, to create
     a Hive table. The service uses Apache Ranger to ensure the group to which that user
     belongs is authorized for that action.
Hue user permissions are at the application level only. For example, a
     Hue superuser can filter Hue user access to a CDP service but
     cannot authorize the use of its features. Again, Ranger does that.

Understanding Hue users and groupsThere are two types of users in Hue - superusers and general users referred to as users,   each with specific privileges. These users can be a part of certain groups. Groups enable you to   control which Hue applications and features your users can view and access when they log into   Hue.Finding the list of Hue superusersYou can fetch the list of superusers by using the Hue shell with Python code or by         running a SQL query on the auth_user table.Creating a Hue userYou can create new Hue users and superusers from the Hue web UI and assign them to         groups so that they can view and access Hue as per the permissions granted to them. Controlling user access to HueAdministrators can control users who can access Hue by creating different LDAP login         groups, adding users needing access to these login groups, and then specifying the login         groups in the Advanced Configuration Snippet in Cloudera Manager.Options for importing and syncing LDAP users and groups in HueConfiguring Hue for Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) enables you to import   users and groups from a directory service, synchronize group membership manually or automatically   at login, and authenticate users with LDAP.Locking an account after invalid login attemptsAs a security measure, you can configure Hue to lock an account after a set number of         unsuccessful or invalid login attempts by specifying the number of attempts in the         login_failure_limit parameter and setting the login_lock_out_at_failure parameter to true in         the Hue Advanced Configuration Snippet in Cloudera Manager.Unlocking locked out user accounts in HueIf Hue is configured to lock out a user account after a set number of invalid login         attempts, then the users get an "Account locked: too many login attempts. Contact an admin         to unlock your account." error message. As an Admin, you can unlock user accounts from the         Hue web interface.Creating a group in HueBy creating groups, you can club certain permissions that you want to assign to         specific users in your organization.Managing Hue permissionsPermissions for Hue applications are granted to groups, with users gaining         permissions based on their group membership. Group permissions define the Hue applications         visible to group members when they log in to Hue and the application features available to         them. There is a fixed set of Hue permissions. You cannot add or modify permissions.         However, you can apply permission to group(s).Resetting Hue user passwordThe first user logging into Hue after its initial installation becomes the first         superuser. Even if a user does not log into the Hue UI, the first security scan may log in         creating an initial user and therefore resulting in an unknown username and password. You         can change the password for a user if you know the username or you can create a new         superuser user and then use it to log in to Hue and change the password for a         user.Assigning superuser status to an LDAP userThe Hue User Admin application provides two levels of privileges: users and superusers.     The superusers have administrative privileges.