Data Migration Versus UpgradeCloudera Docs
Data Migration Versus Upgrade 
Recommendations on whether to upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base or migrate workloads to CDP
        Public Cloud.

Data migration refers to moving existing CDH or HDP workloads to CDP Public Cloud or
                to a new installation of CDP Private Cloud Base. 
Upgrade refers to a full in-place upgrade of CDH or HDP to CDP Private Cloud Base. 

The path to CDP that works best for you depends on the size of your clusters, the types
            of workloads you are running, and whether you want to move workloads to the Cloud, stay
            exclusively on-prem, or use a combination of on-prem and cloud. 
noteThese recommendations apply to both CDH and HDP clusters.
On-prem cluster less than 50 hosts with Hive or Impala
If you are running Hive or Impala workloads without HBase on an on-prem
                cluster with less than 50 hosts, and less than 5 services running on the cluster: 


Migrate workloads to Cloudera Data Warehouse on CDP Public
                        Cloud.



On-prem cluster less than 50 hosts with HBase
If you are running HBase workloads without Hive or Impala on an on-prem
                cluster with less than 50 hosts, and less than 5 services running on the cluster: 


Migrate workloads to CDP Data Hub on CDP Public Cloud and use the
                        Operational Database cluster template. 



On-prem cluster less than 50 hosts with Spark
If you are running Spark workloads without Kafka, NiFi, or Storm on an
                on-prem cluster with less than 50 hosts, and less than 5 services running on the
                cluster: 


Migrate workloads to CDP Data Hub on CDP Public Cloud and use the
                        Data Engineering cluster template.



On-prem cluster more than 800 hosts
If you are running workloads on an on-prem cluster with more than 800
                hosts: 


Split the cluster up into multiple 100-300 node clusters and
                        upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base. 



Multiple on-prem clusters with more than 100 hosts
If you are running workloads on multiple on-prem clusters with a combined
                total of more than 100 hosts, and less than 50 services in total: 


Consolidate the clusters into one 100-300 node cluster and upgrade
                        to CDP Private Cloud Base. 




