KafkaCloudera Docs
Kafka

Kafka requires a fairly small amount of resources, especially with some
        configuration tuning. By default, Kafka, can run on as little as 1 core and 1GB memory with
        storage scaled based on requirements for data retention. 
CPU is rarely a bottleneck because Kafka is I/O heavy, but a moderately-sized CPU
        with enough threads is still important to handle concurrent connections and background
        tasks. 
Kafka brokers tend to have a similar hardware profile to HDFS data nodes. How you
        build them depends on what is important for your Kafka use cases. 
Use the following guidelines:

To affect performance of these features:
Adjust these parameters:



Message Retention
Disk size


Client Throughput (Producer & Consumer) 
Network capacity


Producer throughput
Disk I/O


Consumer throughput
Memory



A common choice for a Kafka node is as follows:


Component
Memory/Java Heap
CPU
Disk



Broker


RAM: 64 GB
Recommended Java heap: 4 GB

Set this value using the Java Heap Size of Broker Kafka
                  configuration property.

12- 24 cores


1 HDD For operating system
1 HDD for Zookeeper dataLogDir
10- HDDs, using Raid 10, for Kafka data




Cruise Control

1 GB 

1 corenoteA moderately-sized CPU with enough threads is important to handle
                  metric fetching from Kafka and background tasks.

Because Cruise Control stores its data in Kafka the storage requirements will
                depend on the retention settings of the related Kafka topics.


Kafka Connect
0.5 - 4 GB heap size depending on the Connectors in use.
4 coresnoteDepends on the Connectors in use.




MirrorMaker
1 GB heapSet this value using the Java Heap Size of
                    MirrorMaker Kafka configuration property.

1 core per 3-4 streams
No disk space needed on MirrorMaker instance. Destination brokers should have
                sufficient disk space to store the topics being copied over.


Schema Registry
1 GB heap
2 cores

1 MB
Serialization JAR files may be uploaded and may be of any size. The disk usage
                  depends on the JAR files uploaded. The files may be stored locally on the same
                  host where SchemaRegistry is running or in HDFS if available.



Streams Messaging ManagernoteThe hardware requirements for SMM depends on the
                  number of Kafka partitions.

8 GB heap
8 cores
5 GB


Streams Replication Manager


1 GB heap for SRM driver
1 GB heap for SRM Service


The performance of the SRM driver is mostly impacted by network throughput and
                latency.
No resources required



Networking requirements: Gigabit Ethernet or 10 Gigabit Ethernet. Avoid clusters
        that span multiple data centers.

Kafka and Zookeeper: It is common to run ZooKeeper on 3 broker nodes that are
        dedicated for Kafka. However, for optimal performance Cloudera recommends the usage of
        dedicated Zookeeper hosts. This is especially true for larger, production environments.

Parent topic: Cloudera Runtime