Updated HDP ComponentsCloudera Docs
Updated HDP Components
HDP Component Changes in CDP Private Cloud Base 7. 
Component Changes in CDP Private Cloud Base 7.0
Flume, Storm, Druid, Falcon, Mahout, and Ambari have
        been removed.


Flume workloads can be migrated to Cloudera Flow Management
            (CFM). CFM is a no-code data ingestion and management solution
            powered by Apache NiFi. Contact your Cloudera account team for more
            information about moving from Flume to CFM. 


Storm can be replaced with Cloudera Streaming Analytics
            (CSA) powered by Apache Flink. Contact your Cloudera account team
            for more information about moving from Storm to CSA. 


Cloudera Manager has
            replaced Ambari, but Ambari will be used as part of the upgrade
            process from HDP to CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.
noteReplacements are not direct replacements and are only alternate product offerings.  


Component Changes in CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1
Data Lifecycle Manager (DLM), Data Steward Studio (DSS), Hive LLAP, and
                Streaming Analytics Manager (SAM) are being removed.


Data Lifecycle Manager (DLM) is being replaced
            with Replication Manager.


Data Steward Studio (DSS) is being replaced
            with Data Catalog.

Hive LLAP is being replaced with Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) as CDW
                    is not yet available on CDP Private Cloud Base.

Streaming Analytics Manager (SAM) was closely tied with Storm and
                        has been removed.

Cloudbreak is not supported in CDP Private Cloud Base and must not be
          present when upgrading. 
DataPlane is not supported in CDP Private Cloud Base and must not be
          present when upgrading.
            noteReplacements are not direct replacements and are only alternate product offerings. 

The following HDF components were previously available for installation on HDP, and
            -                have been included in Cloudera Runtime for the first time in CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.1. 

Schema Registry
Streams Messaging Manager

Streams Replication
          Manager



Parent topic: Changes to CDH and HDP Components in CDP Private Cloud Base