Source control of a projectCloudera Docs
Source control of a project
When you provide a Git repository and branch for a project, you can push and pull your
    project to Git. This enables you to track your versions of your project, create a backup of your
    project in Git and manage the development lifecycle of your project.
You can provide the Git repository URL and branch for a project when you create one or when you
      import a project on the Projects page of Streaming SQL Console.
noteThe Source Control feature is in Technical Preview and not ready for production
      deployment. Cloudera encourages you to explore these features in non-production environments
      and provide feedback on your experiences through the Cloudera Community
      Forums.
After setting up your remote repository, you can navigate to Source
        Control in your project, and use the Import and
        Push buttons to synchronize your local state with the state in the
      repository.

Importing a version of project
When you import a project from Git to SSB in Source Control, the configured Git repository
          is cloned to a temporary directory by SSB, the specified branch is checked out, and the
          resource files found in the directory with the project’s name are used to import resources
          to the SSB project.
After pulling a version of a project, the results of the synchronization are listed by
          resources. The results can include UPDATED,
            DELETED, CREATED,
            ALREADY_EXISTS, FAILED_TO_IMPORT and
            FAILED_TO_DELETE. 



warningIn case the imported changes affect a running job, the job must be
            restarted for the changes to take effect.

Pushing a version of project
When you push a project from to Git in Source Control, the configured repository is cloned
          to a temporary directory by SSB, and the project resources are written to files in a
          directory with the project’s name into the temporary directory.Changes are added and
            committed with the specified commit message, and pushed to the configured
          remote.
Changing the project settings
You can manage the source information of a project under the Source
            Settings tab. You can change the Clone URL and
            Branch information of the Git repository. You can enable
            Allow deletions for importing a project, and configure the
            Authentication method that used when interacting with the
          repository.


Masking information before using source controlWhen exporting projects from SQL Stream Builder, possible sensitive parameters in         CREATE TABLE statements, data sources, or the SQL job will not be redacted. To conceal         sensitive information, environment variables can be used.Parent topic: Project structure and development