CDC connectorsCloudera Docs
CDC connectors
You can use the Debezium Change Data Capture (CDC) connector to stream changes in
    real-time from MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Db2, SQL Server and feed data to Kafka, JDBC, the
    Webhook sink or Materialized Views using SQL Stream Builder (SSB).
Concept of Change Data Capture
Change Data Capture (CDC) is a process to capture changes in a source system, and update the
    data within a downstream system or application with the changes.
The Debezium implementation offers CDC with database connectors from which real-time events
    are updated using Kafka and Kafka Connect. Debezium captures every row-level change in each
    database table of an event stream. Applications read these streams to see the change events in
    the same order as they occurred. The change events are routed to a Kafka topic from which Kafka
    Connect feeds the records to other systems and databases.
For more information about Debezium, see the official Debezium documentation.
CDC in Cloudera Streaming Analytics (CSA) does not require Kafka or Kafka Connect as
        Debezium is implemented as a library within the Flink runtime. This means that the captured
        changes are propagated downstream to any connector that Flink supports. CSA allows queries
        to be issued at change data capture time, which means filtering, grouping, joining, and so
        on, can be performed on the change stream as it comes from the source database.
For more information about the Flink implementation of Debezium, see the official Apache Flink documentation.
From the supported set of Debezium connectors, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Db2, and SQL Server
        are supported in Cloudera Streaming Analytics.
noteYou need to configure the databases, users and permissions for the supported connectors
        before you are able to use them in SSB. For more information about setting up the databases,
        see the official Debezium documentation.


Parent topic: Connectors