Creating a projectCloudera Docs
Creating a project
Before you can use Streaming SQL Console, you need to create a project where you can
        submit your SQL jobs and manage your project resources.

Navigate to the Streaming SQL Console.


Go to your cluster in Cloudera Manager.


Select SQL Stream Builder from the list of services.


Click SQLStreamBuilder Console.
The Streaming SQL Console opens in a new window.



Click New Project on the Projects
                    page of Streaming SQL Console.
The Create Project window appears.

Provide a Name to the project.

Optional: Provide a Description to the project.

Optional: Provide a prefix that overrides the Materialized View table
                    names.
Providing a prefix to the Materialized View tables names that overrides the
                    default one is an advanced option. The tables are prefix by default with the ID
                    of the projects to avoid collision between projects. This configuration allows
                    setting a custom prefix to the Materialized View tables created in the
                    project.

Optional: Provide the Source Settings of the
                    project.


Add a remote Github repository URL to the Clone
                                URL field.
You can use the following example URLs with or without
                                authentication:
To clone without authentication:
                                        https://github.com/cloudera/ssb-examples.git
To clone and push with HTTP basic authentication
                                    (username/password):
                                        https://github.com/cloudera/ssb-examples.gitIn
                                        case of using basic authentication, the personal access
                                        token needs to be provided as password. For more information
                                        about creating personal access tokens, see the Github
                                            documentation.
To clone and push with SSH authentication (SSH private key):
                                        git@github.com:cloudera/ssb-examples.gitIn
                                        case of using SSH authentication, you need to generate the
                                        private key using the following
                                        command:ssh-keygen -t ecdsa -b 256 -m pem -C "name@example.com"As
                                        not every SSH private key is supported, you can use the
                                        following command to convert your key to the acceptable
                                        format:ssh-keygen -m pem -p -f [***PATH_TO_PRIVATE_KEY***]
To clone and push a local git repository on the filesystem of
                                    SSB host: file:///usr/src/ssb-examples/



Provide the branch name or tag of the Github repository to the
                                Branch field. This branch is checked out when
                            pulling or pushing to the Github repository.



warning
When exporting a project, any sensitive information in CREATE
                                TABLE statements, data sources, or SQL jobs will not be
                            redacted. Ensure that usernames and passwords are hidden with the
                            environment variables where required. For more information, see the
                                
                            Source control
                                of a project documentation.



Enable or disable Allow deletions on import.
Enabling the allow deletion upon import allows you to hard-reset your project
                    to its versioned state when there are untracked resources in it. For example,
                    the job is deleted from the project when importing the project from Github if
                    the job does not exist in the repository. In other words, the upstream version
                    overrides the version you have in Streaming SQL Console. If disabled, the
                    project keeps the resources that were not pushed to the Github repository.The
                        deletion affects the jobs, data sources, functions, Materialized Views and
                        their API keys.

Enable or disable Authentication for the project.

After you have created the project, you have the following
            options to manage the project on the Projects page:
Click Open to use the created project and start creating
                    SQL jobs.
Click Switch to open another project than the active
                    one.
Click Delete to remove the project from SSB.


Parent topic: Project structure and development