Creating Materialized ViewsCloudera Docs
Creating Materialized Views
After executing a SQL Stream job, you can set up the Materialized Views to have a
        snapshot of your queried data. You can use the URL Pattern from the Materialized View to
        visualize the generated data.



Make sure that PostgreSQL is installed and configured
                        to SQL Stream Builder (SSB) to create Materialized Views.




Navigate to the Streaming SQL Console.


Go to your cluster in Cloudera Manager.


Select SQL Stream Builder from the list of services.


Click SQLStreamBuilder Console.
The Streaming SQL Console opens in a new window.



Open a project from the Projects page of Streaming SQL
            Console.


Select an already existing project from the list by clicking the
                  Open button or Switch button.


Create a new project by clicking the New Project
                button.


Import a project by clicking the Import button.


You are redirected to the Explorer view of the project.

Click  next to Jobs from the
                        Explorer.

Select New Job .
The SQL Editor for the created job opens in a tab.

Add a SELECT statement to the SQL Editor.

Click Materialized View.
The configuration window for the Materialized View opens.



Switch Enable MV toggle.

Enable or disable Recreate on Job Start.
If enabled, the Materialized View is deleted when a job is started or
                    restarted.

Enable or disable Ignore NULLS.
If enabled, NULL values will NOT update values that are non null - they are
                    ignored.

Select an API Key.
In case there are no API Keys, click Add API key, or
                    click Materialized Views from the main menu. The add API
                    key window appears. Provide a name for the API key, and click Save Changes.


To check your created API keys:
Click  > Manage at the API Keys from the Project
                            Explorer, or click on the created API key under the API
                                Keys.




Configure the Column Settings for the Materialized
                    View.


Select a Primary Key.
If this list is empty, then no SQL is specified in the SQL
                                Editor or the SQL query is invalid. Select a key as a
                            primary key for the Materialized View. All data will be updated by this
                            key.


Enable Column Indexing if needed, and select the
                            column by which you need the results to be indexed.



Configure the retention time for the Materialized View.
For more information about how you can set the retention time, see the 
                    Configuring Retention
                        Time for Materialized Viewsection.

Click New Endpoint to create the Materialized View
                    query.
The Materialized View Endpoint window appears.



Provide a name in the URL Pattern field.

Provide a description of the Materialized View Query, if needed.

Customize the Materialized View in the Endpoint
                    Editor.







Select the columns of the SQL job you want to use in the Materialized
                            View Query.
You can select every column in the table by clicking on the
                                Select All button.


Click Filters tab to apply computations and
                            further enrichment of your data.







Provide details of the filter by selecting the
                                Field, Operator and
                                Value.
You can add more rules or set a ruleset for the query.



Click Create.
You can access the queried results by clicking  > Manage at the Materialized Views from the Project
                    Explorer, and by opening the URL pattern. 



You can click on the created REST endpoint to review the
            data, or copy it and visualize the queried data in a Business Intelligence tool,
            notebook, code and so on. You can also review the list of Materialized View and API keys
            on the Materialized View page.

Parent topic: Introduction to Materialized Views