CDP Private Cloud Data Services glossaryCloudera Docs
CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        glossary
The CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        documentation uses terms related to enterprise data cloud and cloud computing.

CDP CLI:
A command-line interface to access and manage CDP services and resources.
CDP Private Cloud Base:
An on-premises version of Cloudera Data Platform. It combines the best of
                    Cloudera Enterprise Data Hub (CDH) and Hortonworks Data Platform Enterprise
                    (HDP) along with new features and enhancements across the stack.
Cloudera Manager for Data Services:
A tool to install, manage, monitor, and configure your clusters and services
                    using the Cloudera Manager Admin Console web application or the Cloudera Manager
                    API.
Cloudera Runtime:
The core open source software distribution within CDP Private Cloud Base. It
                    includes approximately 50 open-source projects providing data management tools
                    within CDP. 
Control Plane service:
CDP service that includes services like Management Console, Replication Manager,
                    Data Recovery Service, Service Discovery Service, and so on. These services
                    interact with your environment on ECS or OCP to provision and manage compute
                    infrastructure that you can use to manage the lifecycle of data stored on HDFS
                    or Ozone.
Data Engineering:
This data service allows you to create, manage, and schedule Apache Spark jobs
                    without the overhead of creating and maintaining Spark clusters. You can define
                    virtual clusters with a range of CPU and memory resources, and the cluster
                    scales up and down as needed to execute your Spark workloads, helping to control
                    your cloud costs.
Data Lake:
Creates a protective ring of security and governance around your data. For a CDP
                    Private Cloud deployment, the Data Lake services are hosted on the CDP Private
                    Cloud Base cluster. In addition, the Data Lake services are shared between
                    multiple workloads.
Data Service:
A defined subset of CDP functionality that enables a CDP user to solve a
                    specific problem related to their data lake (process, analyze, predict, and so
                    on). Example services: Data Engineering, Data Warehouse, Machine Learning.
Data Warehouse:
This data service enables an enterprise to provision a new data warehouse and
                    share a subset of the data with a specific team or department. A Data Warehouse
                    cluster can be created from the Management Console and accessed by end users
                    (data analysts).
Environment:
A logical entity that represents the association of your Private Cloud user
                    account with compute resources using which you can provision and manage
                    workloads such as Data Warehouse and Machine Learning.
Machine Learning:
This data service enables teams of data scientists to develop, test, train, and
                    ultimately deploy machine learning models for building predictive applications
                    all on the data under management within the enterprise data cloud. A Machine
                    Learning workspace can be created from the Management Console and accessed by
                    end users (data scientists).
Management Console:
The user interface for administering CDP Private Cloud Data Services. As a CDP administrator, you can use Management Console to manage
                    environments, data lakes, environment resources, and users across all Private
                    Cloud Data Services.
Replication Manager:
This data service allows you to copy and migrate HDFS data, Hive external
                    tables, and Ozone data between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher clusters
                    using Cloudera Manager version 7.7.3 or
                    higher.


