Benefits of CDP Private Cloud Data ServicesCloudera Docs
Benefits of CDP Private Cloud Data Services
CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        disaggregates compute and storage, which allows independent scaling of compute and storage
        clusters. The Data Services provide containerized analytic applications that scale
        dynamically and can be upgraded independently. Through the use of containers deployed on
        Kubernetes, CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        brings both agility and predictable performance to analytic applications. CDP Private Cloud Data Services inherits
        unified security, governance, and metadata management through Cloudera Shared Data
        Experience (SDX) from the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.
The three main benefits of CDP Private Cloud Data Services are
            simplified multitenancy and isolation, simplified deployment of applications, and better
            utilization of infrastructure.
Simplified multitenancy and isolation
The containerized deployment of applications in CDP Private Cloud
        ensures that each application is sufficiently isolated and can run
        independently from others on the same Kubernetes infrastructure, in
        order to eliminate resource contention. Such a deployment also helps in
        independently upgrading applications based on your requirements. In
        addition, all these applications can share a common Data Lake
        instance.

Simplified deployment of applications
CDP Private Cloud ensures a much faster deployment of
        applications with a shared Data Lake compared to monolithic clusters
        where separate copies of security and governance data would be required
        for each separate application. In situations where you need to provision
        applications on an arbitrary basis, for example, to deploy test
        applications or to allow for self-service, transient workloads without
        administrative or operations overhead, CDP Private Cloud enables you to
        rapidly perform such deployments.

Better utilization of infrastructure
Similar to CDP Public Cloud, CDP Private Cloud enables you to provision resources in
                real time when deploying applications. In addition, the ability to scale or suspend
                applications on a need basis in CDP Private Cloud ensures that your on-premises
                infrastructure is utilized optimally.


