About CDP Private Cloud Data ServicesCloudera Docs
About CDP Private Cloud Data Services
CDP Private Cloud Data Services works on top of CDP Private Cloud Base and is the on-premises offering of Cloudera
        Data Platform (CDP) that brings many of the benefits of the public cloud deployments to
        on-premises CDP deployments. CDP Private Cloud Data Services lets you
        deploy and use the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), Cloudera Machine Learning (CML), and
        Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) Data Services.
Building on Apache Spark, CDE is an all-inclusive data engineering toolset that
            enables orchestration automation with Apache Airflow, advanced pipeline monitoring,
            visual troubleshooting, and comprehensive management tools to streamline ETL processes
            across enterprise analytics teams. CDE powers consistent, repeatable, and automated data
            engineering workflows.
CDW enables you to create highly-performant, independent, self-service data
            warehouses for teams of business analysts. Cloudera’s support for an open data
            lakehouse, centered on CDW, brings high-performance, self-service reporting and
            analytics to your business – simplifying data management for data practitioners and
            administrators.
CML, Cloudera’s platform for machine learning and AI unifies self-service data
            science and data engineering in a single, portable service for multi-function analytics
            on data. It optimizes ML workflows across your business with native and robust tools for
            deploying, serving, and monitoring models.
Replication Manager enables you to copy and migrate HDFS data, Hive external
            tables, and Ozone data between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher clusters using
            Cloudera Manager version 7.7.3 or higher.
Providing a consistent user experience to data practitioners and IT admins
            across CDP Public and Private Cloud, these data services open up avenues for a hybrid
            data lifecycle.

