Configuring the Livy Thrift ServerCloudera Docs
Configuring the Livy Thrift Server
The Apache Livy Thrift Server provides a JDBC endpoint for
    submitting Spark SQL queries. The Livy Thrift Server is disabled by default.
    The following instructions demonstrate how to enable and configure it using
    Cloudera Manager.

The Livy Thrift Server is supported in Cloudera Data Platform 7.1.0 and
        higher. The Thrift Server is part of the Livy Server. There is no
        separate process.
The Livy Thrift Server inherits the security configuration of the Livy
        Server. It uses Kerberos for authentication and TLS for encryption if
        configured. There is no separate security configuration for the Thrift
        server.


On the Cloudera Manager home page, click the three-dot menu icon
          next to the Livy service, and then click
            Configuration.In the Search field, enter
            thrift to filter the configuration options and
          display the Thrift Server configuration settings.Enable the Livy Thrift Server by checking the box labeled
            Enable Livy Thrift Server.If you want to change the transport mode or port number, modify
          the Livy Thrift Server Transport Mode and
            Livy Thrift Server Port
        settings.Enter a reason for the change in the provided field at the
          bottom of the page, and then click Save
          Changes.Return to the Cloudera Manager home page, and then click the
          stale configuration icon next to the Livy service.Click the Restart Stale Services
          button.Make sure that Re-deploy client
            configuration is checked, and then click
            Restart Now.After the command completes, click
            Finish.
If you want to further configure the Livy Thrift Server, use the
        Livy Server Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
        livy-conf/livy.conf:
On the Cloudera Manager home page, click the three-dot menu icon
          next to the Livy service, and then click
            Configuration.
In the Search field, enter
            livy.conf to filter the configuration options and
          display the advanced configuration text box.
Enter configuration key pairs, one per line, using the syntax
            <parameter> = <value>.
          For
            example:livy.server.thrift.limit.connections.per.user = 10
livy.server.thrift.limit.connections.per.ipaddress = 100
livy.server.thrift.limit.connections.per.user.ipaddress = 10These
            parameters limit the number of connections to the Thrift server by
            user, by IP address, and by the combination of both.
Enter a reason for the change in the provided field at the bottom of
          the page, and then click Save Changes.
Return to the Cloudera Manager home page, and then click the stale
          configuration icon next to the Livy service.
Click the Restart Stale Services button.
Make sure that Re-deploy client configuration
          is checked, and then click Restart Now.
After the command completes, click
          Finish.


Parent topic: Submitting Spark applications using Livy