Configuring data at rest encryptionCloudera Docs
Configuring data at rest encryption
You can enable data at rest encryption using Cloudera Manager. However, you can
        enable it only for a fresh installation and once Kudu directories exist on the cluster you
        cannot disable the encryption.

Kudu supports data at rest encryption, specifically AES-128, AES-192 and
                AES-256 ciphers in CTR mode are supported to encrypt data.
When data is encrypted at rest, the following keys are used for
                encryption:

File Key: The unique key used to encrypt a physical file
Server Key: A server’s own key used to encrypt the File Key
Cluster Key: A key that is used to encrypt the Server Key and stored
                    in a third-party Key Management Service (KMS). Kudu supports Apache Ranger KMS
                    and Apache Hadoop KMS. Both are API-compatible



If Kudu was started before encryption was enabled, all Kudu data directories, WAL
                directories, and metadata directories (usually the same as WAL directories) must be
                deleted. This will result in a completely clean slate, so if there is any data in
                Kudu, it must be backed up using the backup tool before doing so.  For more
                information, see Kudu backup.


In Cloudera Manager navigate to Kudu >  Configuration.

Search for data at rest.

Find the Encrypt data at rest property and select it to
                    enabe data at rest encryption.

Find the Data at rest encryption cipher property and
                    select the cipher for the encryption.
Its defaault value is AES-128-CTR.

Find the Data at rest encryption key name property and
                    set its value to the name of the data at rest encryption key.
Its default value is kudu_encryption_key.

Create a key in Ranger KMS with the same name as the
                    value of the Data at rest encryption key name
                    property.

Ensure that the TLS certificate used by Ranger KMS is trusted on the OS-level
                    by all Kudu hosts. This is required even if you use AutoTLS.
For more information, consult your OS documentation.

Start the Kudu cluster.


If you enabled data at encryption for a pre-existing cluster, restore the
                data you backed up before enabling encryption. For more information, see Kudu
                    recovery.


Related informationKudu backupKudu recoveryParent topic: Configuring a secure Kudu cluster using Cloudera Manager