Configuring HTTPS encryptionCloudera Docs
Configuring HTTPS encryption
Lastly, you enable TLS/SSL encryption (over HTTPS) for browser-based connections to
        both the Kudu master and tablet server web UIs.

Go to the Kudu service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Category > Security.

In the Search field, type TLS/SSL to show the relevant
                    properties.

Edit the following properties according to your cluster configuration:



 Field 
 Usage Notes 




Master TLS/SSL Server Private
                                            Key File (PEM Format) 

 Set to the path containing the Kudu
                                            master host's private key (PEM-format). This is used to
                                            enable TLS/SSL encryption (over HTTPS) for browser-based
                                            connections to the Kudu master web UI. 




Tablet Server TLS/SSL Server
                                            Private Key File (PEM Format) 

 Set to the path containing the Kudu
                                            tablet server host's private key (PEM-format). This is
                                            used to enable TLS/SSL encryption (over HTTPS) for
                                            browser-based connections to Kudu tablet server web UIs.
                                        




Master TLS/SSL Server
                                            Certificate File (PEM Format) 

 Set to the path containing the signed
                                            certificate (PEM-format) for the Kudu master host's
                                            private key (set in Master TLS/SSL Server Private Key
                                            File). The certificate file can be created by
                                            concatenating all the appropriate root and intermediate
                                            certificates required to verify trust. 




Tablet Server TLS/SSL Server
                                            Certificate File (PEM Format) 

 Set to the path containing the signed
                                            certificate (PEM-format) for the Kudu tablet server
                                            host's private key (set in Tablet Server TLS/SSL Server
                                            Private Key File). The certificate file can be created
                                            by concatenating all the appropriate root and
                                            intermediate certificates required to verify trust. 




Enable TLS/SSL for Master
                                            Server

 Enables HTTPS encryption on the
                                        Kudu master web UI. 



Enable TLS/SSL for Tablet
                                            Server

 Enables HTTPS encryption on the
                                        Kudu tablet server Web UIs. 




Click Save Changes.


Parent topic: Configuring a secure Kudu cluster using Cloudera Manager