About using HueCloudera Docs
About using Hue
Hue provides a one-stop querying experience in Cloudera Data
            Platform (CDP) that leverages Hive and Impala SQL queries.
Accessing and using HueGet started using Hue by analyzing and visualizing your data with Impala and Hive SQL         query engines.Viewing Hive query detailsYou can search Hive query history, compare two queries, download debug bundles for   troubleshooting, and view query details, a graphical representation of the query execution plan,   and DAG information on the Job Browser page in Hue.Viewing Impala query detailsYou can view Impala query details, query plan, execution summary, and query metrics on   the new Impala Queries tab on the Job Browser page in Hue, and use this information to tune and   optimize your queries.Terminating Hive queriesIf a query is running for longer than expected, or you have accidentally triggered         it, then you can stop the query to free up the resources. Hue also allows you to stop         multiple queries at once.Comparing Hive and Impala queries in HueYou can compare two queries to know how each query is performing in terms of speed         and cost-effectiveness. Hue compares various aspects of the two queries, based on which you         can identify what changed between the executions of those two queries, and you can debug         performance-related issues between different runs of the same query.Using SQL to query HBase from HueHue provides a simple SQL interface to create and manipulate SQL tables that are stored   in HBase, and define and   manipulate   views on HBase tables using Apache Phoenix in addition to HBase shell and database   API.Querying existing HBase tablesTo use SQL for querying data from existing HBase tables, you must create a view in   Phoenix pointing to the HBase table.Enabling the SQL editor autocompleterAutocompleter provides finely tuned SQL suggestions for Hive and Impala     dialects while you enter queries into the editor window. See Brand new Autocompleter for Hive and       Impala in the Hue blog.Rerunning a query from the Job Browser pageYou may need to reconfigure the query parameters post a query execution, based on the         results. You can modify and rerun your historical queries from the Job Browser         page.Using governance-based data discoveryHue can use the metadata tagging, indexing, and search features available in Apache     Atlas data management. After integrating Hue with Atlas,  classifications and indexed entities     can be accessed and viewed in Hue. This topic shows you how to     use metadata classifications in Hue.Using Amazon S3 with HueHue can read to and write to an Amazon S3 bucket.Using Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with HueHue can read to and write to an Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS) Gen2.Disabling the automatic creation of user home directoriesIf you have enabled fine-grained authorization to access S3, then Hue is configured         to automatically create user home directories, by default. You can disable the automatic         creation of user home directories by setting the autocreate_user_dir flag to false in the         Hue Service Advanced Configuration Snippet.Granting permission to access S3 and ABFS File Browser in HueOnly admin users can view and access S3 or ABFS File Browser in Hue after enabling         it. You must manually grant application permissions to non-admin users and groups for them         to be able to view and access S3 and ABFS File Browsers in Hue.Supported non-ASCII and special characters in HueAuto-generated files may often introduce non-alphanumeric characters in the file and   directory names that Hue does not support. This might cause the files or directories to not appear   on the Hue File Browser. Review the list of non-alphanumeric, non-ASCII, diacritics (accents)   characters supported in Hue for the following operations: upload, create, list in folder, view,   and rename.Options to rerun Oozie workflows in HueOozie workflows consume time and resources to run. You can optimize the rerun of a   failed Oozie workflow by selecting one of the following two options: “All or skip successful” or   “Only failed”. These options enable you to select individual actions within your workflow that you   want to rerun.Options to restart the Hue serviceRestarting the Hue service is necessary after upgrading CDP or making configuration   changes to Hue. You can restart Hue in regular or rolling restart mode. Rolling restart reduces   the service downtime to approximately 80 to 90 seconds.