Replication Policies pageCloudera Docs
Replication Policies page
The Replication Policies page shows all the replication policies available in
        Replication Manager, their status, and a detailed view for each.
The Replication Policies page shows the number of policies
            that have the following status:

Error or failed replication policies. Click
                        the number to view the policy names, the names of the source and destination
                        clusters, and the services that are stopped on the source or destination
                        cluster.


Active replication policies that are in
                            Submitted or Running state.
                    


Suspended replication policies. Administrators
                        can suspend a running policy.


Expired replication policies.


Total number of running policies.


You can also view the following policy details on the Replication
                Policies page:

Current replication policy Status


Policy Type


Replication policy Name


Source cluster name


Destination cluster name


Jobs that were run for the replication policy
                        and the job status 


Duration to run the policy


Last Success timestamp of the last successful
                        run


Next Run timestamp of the next scheduled
                        run


Click Actions to perform more actions on a replication policy.
Expand a replication policy to view the following details about the policy:

Description for the replication policy that
                        you added while creating or editing the policy.


Source cluster details


Destination cluster details


Frequency to run the policy which includes the
                        next run timestamp and the last run timestamp.


HDFS Snapshot shows whether it is enabled or
                        not for the replication policy.


Queue name for the policy otherwise it
                        displays default.


Max Bandwidth allocated for a map task


Max Maps or maximum number of simultaneous
                        copies per replication job



Parent topic: Replication Manager service web interface