Clusters pageCloudera Docs
Clusters page
The Clusters page shows the geolocation of each cluster and helps you to easily identify
      the status of cluster services, using interactive color markers on the map. The page also
      shows the total number of clusters enabled for Replication Manager, the number of clusters
      that are active or in an error state, and the number of clusters for which a warning is
      issued.
The Clusters page shows the following information about each
         cluster:


Cluster health Status


CDP Status for clusters as SYNCED
               (cluster is registered and running), SYNC_ERROR (cluster is
               down), or SYNC_IN_PROGRESS (cluster registration is in
               progress).


Source and destination cluster names


Runtime versions


Number of Nodes in the source cluster


Number of replication Policies between the specified
               clusters


Location of the cluster


Use the Actions menu to Add Policy
         (create a replication policy); Launch Cloudera Manager; or
            Sync the cluster configuration. 
Click Add Cluster to register a CDP Private Cloud Base
         cluster 7.1.8 or higher cluster in Management Console to use in
         replication policies.
The map shows the geolocation of each cluster and helps you to easily identify
         the status of cluster services, using the following interactive markers on the map:

Red indicates that at least one required service
                  has stopped on the cluster.


Orange indicates that all the required services are
                  running on the cluster but the remaining disk capacity on the cluster is less than
                  10%.


Green indicates that all the required services are
                  running on the cluster and the remaining disk capacity is greater than 10%.


Hover over a marker on the map to view the data center associated with the
         cluster, the cluster name, and the number of Replication Manager policies that are
         associated with that cluster.
To investigate the issues associated with clusters that have an error or warning
         status, launch Cloudera Manager.

Parent topic: Replication Manager service web interface