Introduction to Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Introduction to Replication Manager
Replication Manager is a service in CDP Private Cloud Data Services. You can use this
        service to copy and migrate HDFS data, Hive external tables, and Ozone data between CDP
        Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher clusters using Cloudera Manager version 7.7.3 or
        higher.
The following support matrix table lists the lowest supported Cloudera Manager
            version, Cloudera Runtime version, clusters, and supported services for Replication
                Manager:

Source cluster
Lowest supported source Cloudera Manager
                                version
Lowest supported source Cloudera Runtime
                                version
Destination cluster
Supported services on Replication Manager



CDP Private Cloud Base
7.7.3
7.1.8
CDP Private Cloud Base
HDFS, external Hive tables, Ozone data


You can access the Replication Manager service on the CDP Private Cloud Data
            Services web interface. To replicate data between clusters, add the source and
            destination clusters on the Management Console > Clusters page, and then create HDFS and Hive replication policies in Replication
            Manager. The Replication Policies page shows the progress and
            status of replication policy jobs. 
The Replication Manager supports the following functionalities:
HDFS replication policies
These policies replicate files or directories in HDFS.
Some use cases to use these replication policies are to:
replicate required data to another cluster to run
                                load-intensive workflows on it which optimizes the primary cluster
                                performance.
deploy a complete backup-restore solution for your
                                enterprise.

Hive replication policies
These policies replicate Hive metadata and Hive external tables.
Some use cases where you can use these replication policies are to:
backup legacy data for future use or archive cold
                                data.
replicate or move data to cloud clusters to run
                                analytics.

Ozone replication policies
These policies replicate Ozone data.
Some use cases where you can use these replication policies are to:
replicate or migrate the required Ozone data to another cluster to
                                run load-intensive workloads.
back up data.



