ML Runtimes Known Issues and LimitationsCloudera Docs
ML Runtimes Known Issues and Limitations
You might run into some known issues while using ML Runtimes.
Packages can fail to load in a session
When installing R or Python packages in a Session, the kernel might not be able to load the
        package in the same session, if a previous version of the package or its newly installed
        dependencies have been loaded in the same Session. Such issues are observable more often in
        PBJ R Runtimes, which automatically load basic R packages like vctrs,
          lifecycle, rlang, cli at session
        startup.
Workaround: Start a new session, import and use the newly installed package there.

Python Runtimes in CML fail to import the setuptools Python library
        and can fail installing some Python packages
Python Runtimes in CML fail to import the setuptools Python library and
        therefore can fail installing some Python packages when the library
          setuptools is present on the Runtime or is installed into the CML project
        with version 60.0.0 or higher.
Python 3.10 Runtimes from the 2023.05 Runtime release ship with a newer version of
          setuptools, so customers can run into this issue when they are using that
        Runtime. Also they can run into this issue when they are using Custom Runtimes that has a
        newer setuptools library version or when they install a new
          setuptools version into their project (regardless of what Runtime they
        use). 
Workaround: Set the environmental variable
          SETUPTOOLS_USE_DISTUTILS=stdlib either on a project level under
          Project Settings -> Advanced or on a workspace level under
          Site Administration -> Runtime -> Environment variables.

Version of jupyter-client Python package must be less than version 8 for PBJ
        Runtimes
Upgrading the Python package jupyter-client with a version greater than
        7.4.9 can temporarily break a Project. Workloads using PBJ Runtimes will not be able to
        start Projects if the jupyter-client version is greater than 7.4.9.
Workaround: Launch the same version of Python, but not on a PBJ Runtime (either
        Workbench or JupyterLab). Open a Terminal window and uninstall the
          jupyter-client package from the Project by executing pip3
          uninstall jupyter-client. Verify your change by running pip3
          list and checking that the version of the jupyter-client package
        is less than version 8.

DSE-9818 JupyterLab Conda Tech Preview Runtime


Sessions
When starting a Notebook or a Console for a specific environment, the installed
              packages will be available and the interpreter used to evaluate the contents of the
              Notebook or Console will be the one installed in the environment. However, the Conda
              environment is not "activated" in these sessions, therefore commands like
                !which python will return with the base Python 3.10 interpreter on
              the Runtime. The recommended ways to modify a Conda environments or install packages
              are the following:
conda commands must be used with the -n or
                    --name argument to specify the environment, for example
                    conda -n myenv install pandas
When installing packages with pip, use the %pip magic to
                  install packages in the active kernel’s environment, for example %pip
                    install pandas

Applications and Jobs
To start an Application or Job, first create a launcher Python script containing the
              following line: !source activate <conda_env_name> && python <job
                / application script.py>
When starting the Application or Job, select the launcher script as the
              "Script".
Models
Models are currently not supported for the Conda Runtime.
Spark
Spark is not supported in JupyterLab Notebooks and Consoles.
Spark workloads are supported in activated Conda environments in JupyterLab
              Terminals, or in Jobs or Applications.
The CDSW libraries for Python and R are not available for the Conda Runtimes. 



DSE-27222 Workbench editor for Python Runtimes and PBJ Runtimes cannot parse multiline
        strings properly
Workbench editor for Python 3.7 Runtime cannot parse multiline strings properly. Trying 
        to evaluate multiline strings in some cases result in a "SyntaxError: EOF while scanning 
        triple-quoted string literal" error message.
Workaround: Transform multiline strings to single line strings in code that is
        entered into the workbench directly.

Adding a new ML Runtimes when using a custom root certificate might generate error
        messages
When trying to add new ML Runtimes, a number of error messages might appear in various
        places when using a custom root certificate. For example, you might see: "Could not fetch
        the image metadata" or "certificate signed by unknown authority". This is caused by the
        runtime-puller pods not having access to the custom root certificate that is in use.
Workaround:


Create a directory at any location on the master node:For example:
                mkdir -p /certs/
Copy the full server certificate chain into this folder. It is usually easier to
            create a single file with all of your certificates (server, intermediate(s), root): 
# copy all certificates into a single file: 
cat server-cert.pem intermediate.pem root.pem > /certs/cert-chain.crt

(Optional) If you are using a custom docker registry that has its own certificate, you
            need to copy this certificate chain into this same
            file:cat docker-registry-cert.pem >> /certs/cert-chain.crt
Copy the global CA certificates into this new file:
            # cat /etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt >> /certs/cert-chain.crt
Edit your deployment of runtime manager and add the new mount. Do not delete any
              existing objects.#kubectl edit deployment
            runtime-manager
Under VolumeMounts, add the following lines. Note that the text is white-space
              sensitive - use spaces and not tabs.
- mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt 
   name: mycert 
   subPath: cert-chain.crt #this should match the new file name created in step 4
                
Under Volumes add the following text in the same edit:
- hostPath: 
   path: /certs/  #this needs to match the folder created in step 1
   type: "" 
name: mycert

Save your changes: wq!Once saved, you will receive the
              message "deployment.apps/runtime-manager edited" and the pod will be restarted with
              your new changes. 
To persist these changes across cluster restarts, use the following Knowledge Base
            article to create a kubernetes patch file for the runtime-manager deployment: https://community.cloudera.com/t5/Customer/Patching-CDSW-Kubernetes-deployments/ta-p/90241


Cloudera Bug:  DSE-20530

Spark Runtime Add-on required for Spark 2 integration with Scala Runtimes
Scala Runtimes on CML require Spark Runtime Addon to enable Spark2 integration. Spark3 is
        not supported with the Scala Runtime. 

DSE-17981 - Disable Scala runtimes in models, experiments and applications runtime
        selection
Scala Runtimes should not appear as an option for Models, Experiments, and Applications in
        the user interface. Currently Scala Runtimes only support Session and Jobs. 


