Business Metadata overviewCloudera Docs
Business Metadata overview
Atlas allows you to define your own attributes as key-value pairs to
    add to the technical metadata Atlas stores for data assets. These attributes
    are grouped in Business Metadata collections so you can control which users
    have access to create, update, and assign these attributes.
There's a fixed set of attributes that Atlas collects for each entity type
      from services on the cluster. You can augment these attributes by updating
      the entity model, but this requires changing the code in the plugin that
      manages metadata collection for the service. Defining business metadata
      attributes allows you to add to the technical metadata for an entity type,
      but also to control access to those attributes in groups. You can use
      business metadata groupings or collections in Ranger policies to determine
      who can view business metadata attributes, who can set their values, and
      who can create additional attributes. For example, you could create a
      business metadata collection called "Operations," that included attributes
      such as IT-owner, Operational Phase, Processing Strategy, and Processed
      Date. In a Ranger policy, you could expose these attributes only to the IT
      staff or expose them to all users but only allow the IT staff to set their
      values. You could define  attributes that had meaning for a specific
      entity type or applied to any entity types.
In Atlas, you define a business metadata collection—simply the label for
      a group of attributes. You can than define attributes in that business
      metadata collection. After you've defined business metadata attributes,
      you can add values through the Atlas UI or apply them in bulk to entities
      using a bulk import process.

Related informationCreating Business MetadataAdding attributes to Business MetadataAssociating Business Metadata attributes with entitiesImporting Business Metadata associations in bulkSearching for entities using Business Metadata attributes