Configuring cluster capacity with queuesCloudera Docs
Configuring cluster capacity with queues
You can manage your cluster capacity using queues to balance resource requirements of multiple applications from various users.
You can use the Capacity Scheduler to share cluster resources using FIFO (first in, first
      out) queues. 
You can configure queues either by specifying the percentage of the capacity using the
      Relative mode or the actual units of vCores and memory using the Absolute mode or the fraction
      of the total capacity using the Weight mode. If you are upgrading your cluster, Weight mode is
      the default mode. If you are installing and configuring the cluster freshly, Relative mode is
      the default mode. You can change the allocation mode to the Absolute mode. 
You can submit applications to different queues at multiple levels in the queue hierarchy if
      the capacity is available on the nodes in the cluster. Because total cluster capacity can
      vary, capacity configuration values are expressed using percentages, units, or fractions.
Example – Configuring capacity using the Relative mode
      
You can specify the capacity property to allocate a floating-point percentage value of
        cluster capacity to a queue. The following configurations divide the cluster resources
        between the "engineering", "support", and "marketing" organizations in a 6:1:3 ratio (60%,
        10%, and 30%).
To specify the capacity property based on the above example, perform the following:

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
          service. A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the Overview tab. 
Click on the three vertical dots on the root and select Edit Child
          Queues option.
Enter the Configured Capacity of "engineering"
          to 60, "support" to 10,
          and "marketing" to 30.
Click Save.


Example – Configuring capacity using the Absolute mode
    
You can specify the capacity in units of memory in MiB and the number of cores to a queue.
        If the total units of memory is 16384 MiB and 16 cores, and the
      the cluster resources between the "engineering", "support", and "marketing" organizations
        are allocated as follows:


Organization
Memory
vCores



engineering
9830
10


support
1638
2


marketing
4916
4


To specify the capacity property based on the above example, perform the following:

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
          service. A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the
            Overview tab.
Click on the three vertical dots on the root and select Edit Child
            Queues option.
Enter the Configured Memory of "engineering" to
            9830, "support" to 1638, and "marketing"
          to 4916.
Enter the Configured vCores of "engineering" to
            10, "support" to 2, and "marketing" to
            4.
Click Save.


Example – Configuring capacity using the Weight mode 
You can specify the capacity in fractions of total resources. The resources are divided
        based on how the queue's weight relates to the sum of configured weights under the parent.
        The following configurations divide the cluster resources between the "engineering",
        "support", and "marketing" organizations in 6:1:3 (6/10, 1/10, and 3/10) fraction of total
        resources.
To specify the capacity property based on the above example, perform the following:

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters > YARN Queue Manager UI
          service. A graphical queue hierarchy is displayed in the Overview tab. 
Click on the three vertical dots on the root and select Edit Child
          Queues option.
Enter the Configured Weight of
            "engineering" to 6,
            "support" to 1, and
            "marketing" to 3.
Click Save.



Parent topic: Viewing YARN queues