Step 5: Create the HDFS superuserCloudera Docs
Step 5: Create the HDFS superuser
To create home directories for users, you need access to the HDFS superuser
    account.

CDP automatically creates the HDFS superuser account on each cluster host during CDP
        installation. When you enable Kerberos for the HDFS service, you lose access to the default
        HDFS superuser account using sudo -u hdfs commands. Cloudera recommends
        that you use a different user account as the superuser, rather than the default
          hdfs account. 


Parent topic: Enabling Kerberos Authentication for CDP
Designating a Non-default Superuser Group


To designate a different group of superusers instead of using the default
            hdfs account:


Open the Cloudera Manager Admin console and navigate to the HDFS service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Scope > HDFS (Service-Wide).

Select Category > Security.

Locate the Superuser Group property and change the value to the appropriate
            group name for your environment. For example, <superuser>.

Enter a Reason for change, then click Save
              Changes to commit the changes.

Restart the HDFS service.


To enable your access to the superuser account now that Kerberos is enabled, you must now
          create a Kerberos principal or an Active Directory user whose first component is
            <superuser>:
If you are using Active Directory
Add a new user account to Active Directory,
            <superuser>@YOUR-REALM.COM. The password for this account should be
          set to never expire.
If you are using MIT KDC


In the kadmin.local or kadmin shell, type the
              following command to create a Kerberos principal called
                <superuser>:kadmin:  addprinc <superuser>@YOUR-LOCAL-REALM.COMThis
              command prompts you to create a password for the <superuser>
              principal. You should use a strong password because having access to this principal
              provides superuser access to all of the files in HDFS.
To run commands as the HDFS superuser, you must obtain Kerberos credentials for the
                <superuser> principal. To do so, run the following command and
              provide the appropriate password when
              prompted.kinit <superuser>@YOUR-LOCAL-REALM.COM


If you are using Red Hat IdM/FreeIPA


On the Identity > Users page, click the Add button.
Specify the superuser principal name in the User login field,
              complete the remaining fields, then click Add.





