Step 3: Create the Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager ServerCloudera Docs
Step 3: Create the Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager Server
How to create a Kerberos principal for Cloudera Manager Server. 

At the end of the integration process using the configuration wizard, Cloudera Manager
        Server will create host principals and deploy keytabs for all services configured on the
        cluster, which means that Cloudera Manager Server requires a principal that has privileges
        to create these other accounts. 
noteThis task requires administrator privileges on the Kerberos instance. If you
        do not have administrator privileges, ask your Kerberos administrator to setup the principal
        and password for you. You will need to enter the principal name and password into the wizard
        later in the install process.
If an administrator principal to act on behalf of Cloudera Manager cannot be created on the
        Kerberos KDC for whatever reason, Cloudera Manager cannot create or manage principals and
        keytabs for CDP services. That means these principals must be created manually on the
        Kerberos KDC and then imported (retrieved) by Cloudera Manager. See Using a custom
          Kerberos keytab retrieval script for details about this process.

noteThe steps below summarize the process of adding a principal specifically for Cloudera
          Manager Server to an MIT KDC and an Active Directory KDC. See documentation from MIT,
          Microsoft, or the appropriate vendor for more detailed information. 



Related informationUsing a custom Kerberos keytab retrieval scriptParent topic: Enabling Kerberos Authentication for CDP
Creating a Principal in Active Directory


Check the Microsoft documentation for specific details for your Active Directory KDC. The
          general process is as follows:


Create an Organizational Unit (OU) in your Active Directory KDC service that will
            contain the principals for use by the CDP cluster.

Add a new user account to Active Directory, for example,
                username@EXAMPLE.COM. Set the password for the
            user to never expire. 

Use the Delegate Control wizard in Active Directory to grant
            this new user permission to Create, Delete, and Manage User Accounts in the OU
            created in step 1. Make sure that these permissions are only applied to that specific
            OU, and nowhere else.



Creating a Principal in an MIT KDC

For MIT Kerberos, administrator principals are defined
            in the /var/kerberos/krb5kdc/kadm5.acl file on the KDC host. The
            default entry
            is:*/admin@EXAMPLE.COM     *In
            this example, principals that include the instance name admin designate
            a user account as an administrator, such as
                jdoe/admin@EXAMPLE.COM.If
            you modify the kadm5.acl file, such as replacing
              EXAMPLE.COM with your realm name, make sure to restart the
              kadmin service:
RHEL 7
              Compatible:systemctl restart kadmin
All
              Others:service kadmin restart
Create the Cloudera Manager Server administrator principal as shown below, using
            the admin instance name and your realm name. If your
              kadm5.acl file defines a different pattern for administrators, make
            sure that the principal you create matches that pattern.For MIT Kerberos KDC
              on a remote host:noteTo connect to a remote KDC using the
              kadmin command, your currently authenticated Kerberos principal must
            be an existing Kerberos administrator. If you do not have an existing admin principal,
            you must run kadmin.local as described
            below.kadmin
kadmin: addprinc -pw password cloudera-scm/admin@EXAMPLE.COMFor
            MIT Kerberos KDC on the local host:noteThe kadmin.local command
            must be run as root on the same host as the
          KDC.kadmin.local
kadmin.local: addprinc -pw password cloudera-scm/admin@EXAMPLE.COM




Creating a Principal in Red Hat Identity Management (FreeIPA)


If you are using Red Hat IdM or FreeIPA, the wizard creates its own user account with the
          necessary privileges. To do so, it requires admin credentials the first time. These admin
          credentials are not stored, and are used only to create a new user and role (named
              cmadin-<random_id> and
            cmadminrole, respectively) and retrieve its keytab. Cloudera Manager
          stores this keytab for future Kerberos operations, such as regenerating the credentials of
          the CDP service accounts.
Because the wizard creates the principal it requires, you do not need to manually create
          an admin principal for Cloudera Manager at this time.
For additional information, refer to the Red Hat documentation:

RHEL 7: Linux Domain Identity, Authentication, and Policy Guide
RHEL 6: Identity Management Guide




