Managing Kerberos credentials using Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Managing Kerberos credentials using Cloudera Manager
How to regenerate Kerberos principals in Cloudera Manager. 
Related informationConfiguring a dedicated MIT KDC for cross-realm trustStep 3: Create the Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager ServerParent topic: Configuring Authentication in Cloudera Manager



Minimum Required Role:
Full
            Administrator. This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
When Kerberos authentication is enabled for HDFS service instances,
          Cloudera Manager starts creating Kerberos principals for each role instance on the cluster
          at the end of the configuration process. Depending on the number of hosts and the number
          of HDFS role instances in the cluster, the process may take anywhere
          from a few seconds to several minutes.
After the process completes, view the list of Kerberos principals created for the cluster
          by using the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. Every host with HDFS
          role instances should have Kerberos principals.
If no principals have been created after 10 minutes, there may be an issue with the
          process.

important

Do not regenerate the principals for your cluster unless you have made a global
                configuration change, such as changing the encryption type. 
Regenerate principals using the Cloudera Manager Admin Console only. Do not use
                  kadmin shell.
For an MIT KDC, see Configuring a dedicated MIT KDC for cross-realm trust
                to avoid invalidating existing host keytabs.







Updating Kerberos credentials in Cloudera Manager


If you change the user name or the password (or both) in the Active Directory KDC for the
          account used by Cloudera Manager for Kerberos authentication, you must also change it in
          Cloudera Manager. These credentials were stored during the Kerberos integration process
          (see Step 3: Create the Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager Server).


Log in to Cloudera Manager Admin Console.

Select Administration > Security.

Click the Kerberos Credentials tab.

Click Setup KDC for this Cloudera Manager.

Enter the new user and password for the principal added to the Kerberos KDC in
              Step 4: Enter Account Credentials.

If you are using Red Hat IdM/FreeIPA, enter the IPA admin credentials here. These
              admin credentials are not stored, and are used only to create a new user and role
              (named cmadin-<random_id> and
                cmadminrole, respectively) and retrieve its keytab. Cloudera
              Manager stores this keytab for future Kerberos operations, such as regenerating the
              credentials of the CDP service accounts.





Managing Active Directory account properties


If you are using an Active Directory KDC, Cloudera Manager lets you configure Active
          Directory accounts and customize the credential regeneration process using the Cloudera
          Manager Admin Console. You can also use Cloudera Manager to configure the encryption types
          to be used by your Active Directory account. Once you modify any Active Directory account
          properties, you must regenerate Kerberos credentials to reflect those changes. The
          credential regeneration process requires you to delete existing accounts before new ones
          are created. 
By default, Cloudera Manager does not delete accounts in Active Directory, which
          means that to regenerate Kerberos principals contained in Active Directory, you need to
          manually delete the existing Active Directory accounts. You can either delete and
          regenerate all existing Active Directory accounts, or only delete those with the
          userPrincipalName (or login name) that you will later manually select for regeneration. If
          the accounts haven't already been deleted manually, the regeneration process will throw an
          error message saying that deletion of accounts is required before you proceed. 



Modifying Active Directory account properties using Cloudera Manager


If you are using an Active Directory KDC, you can configure Active Directory account
            properties such as objectClass and accountExpires
            directly from the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. Any changes to these properties will
            be reflected in the regenerated Kerberos credentials.


Go to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and click the
                Administration tab.

Select Administration > Settings.

Click the Kerberos category.

Locate the Active Directory Account Properties and edit as required. By
              default, the property will be set to:

accountExpires=0,objectClass=top,objectClass=person,objectClass=organizationalPerson,objectClass=user


Locate the Active Directory Password Properties and edit the field as
              needed. By default, the property will be set to:

length=12,minLowerCaseLetters=2,minUpperCaseLetters=2,minDigits=2,minSpaces=0,minSpecialChars=0,specialChars=?.!$%^*()-_+=~


Click Save Changes.

Regenerate new credentials with the new properties.




Enabling credential regeneration for Active Directory accounts using Cloudera
        Manager


To avoid having to delete accounts manually, enable the Active Directory Delete
              Accounts on Credential Regeneration property. By default, this property is
            disabled. After enabling this feature, Cloudera Manager will delete existing Active
            Directory accounts automatically when new ones are created during regeneration. 


On the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, click the
                Administration tab.

Select Administration > Settings.

Click the Kerberos category.

Locate the Active Directory Delete Accounts on Credential Regeneration and
              check the property to activate this capability.

Click Save Changes.




Configuring encryption types for Active Directory KDC using Cloudera Manager


Cloudera Manager allows you to configure the encryption types (or
              enctype) used by an Active Directory KDC to protect its
            data. Cloudera supports the following encryption types:
aes128-cts
aes256-cts
des-cbc-crc
des-cbc-md5
To configure encryption types for an Active Directory KDC:


Go to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and click the
                Administration tab.

Select Administration > Settings.

Click the Kerberos category.

Locate the Kerberos Encryption Types and click  to add the encryption types you want
              Active Directory to use (see the list above for supported encryption types
                enctypes).

Check the checkbox for the Active Directory Set Encryption Types property.
              This will automatically set the Cloudera Manager AD account to use the encryption
              types configured in the previous step.

Click Save Changes.




Moving Kerberos principals to another OU within Active Directory


If you have a Kerberized cluster configured with an Active Directory KDC, you can use
            the following steps to move the Kerberos principals from one AD Organizational Unit (OU)
            to another. 


Create the new OU on the Active Directory Server.

Use AD's Delegate Control wizard to set the permissions on the new OU such that the
              configured Cloudera Manager admin account has the ability to Create, Delete and
                Manage User Accounts within this OU.

Stop the cluster.

Stop the Cloudera Management Service. 

In Active Directory, move all the Cloudera Manager and CDP components' user
              accounts to the new OU. 

In Cloudera Manager, select Administration > Security.

On the Kerberos Credentials tab, click
                Configuration.

Select Scope > Settings.

Select Category > Kerberos.

Locate the Active Directory Suffix property and edit the value to reflect
              the new OU name.

Click Save Changes.




Viewing or regenerating Kerberos credentials using Cloudera Manager


To view Kerberos principals for the cluster from Cloudera Manager for either MIT
            Kerberos or Active Diretory: 


Log in to Cloudera Manager Admin Console. 

Select Administration > Security. 

Click the Kerberos Credentials tab. The currently configured
              Kerberos principals for services running on the cluster display, such as: 


For HDFS, principals hdfs/hostname and
                    host/hostname



To regenerate any principals (if necessary): 


Select the principal from the list.
Click Regenerate.






Running the Security Inspector


The Security Inspector uses the Host Inspector to run a security-related set of
            commands on the hosts in your cluster. It reports on matters such as how Java is
            configured for encryption and on the default realms configured on each host:


Select Administration > Security.

Click Security Inspector. Cloudera Manager begins several
              tasks to inspect the managed hosts.

After the inspection completes, click Download Result Data
              or Show Inspector Results to review the results.



