Kerberos Configuration Strategies for CDPCloudera Docs
Kerberos Configuration Strategies for CDP
An overview of integration options when configuring Kerberos for Cloudera Data Platform
  (CDP).

Table 1. Kerberos Configuration Strategies for CDP


A. Direct integration of Cloudera Manager with AD/MIT/IPA KDC
B. Keytab retrieval through “keytab retrieval script"
C. Manual deployment / configuration of keytab for services



Brief description of functionality
Cloudera Manager can create/delete service principals directly in the KDC as needed,
        and Cloudera Manager will retrieve the keytabs for the created principals
        automatically.
Cloudera Manager will call an external script to retrieve a keytab for a given
        principal.
Cloudera Manager will maintain keytab/kerberos related configuration for services with
        either the A or B column methods, but we will override the default location of the keytab
        with a “Safety Valve” option.


Example

This is the default/recommended setup.

Cloudera Manager will store/track the available keytabs, and can create
          missing principals/keytabs after new services/role instances are added.
Cloudera Manager can recreate existing principals / keytabs if needed for
          some reason.




Where direct integration with AD / KDC is not feasible due to internal
          restrictions/policy.
Could be used integrate Cloudera Manager with unsupported KDC types.


Could be used where customizations are needed to the keytabs due to external
        factors.


Principal naming convention

Kerberos principals used by CDP are following this naming convention:
          service/fqdn@REALM.
Most services use a single username across the cluster (like “hdfs” or “hive”)
         for all roles of the service. The host part will vary based on the available hosts in the
         cluster, so a single service will likely need multiple principals, where the username part
         is the same, and the hostname will match one of the hosts where this service is running on.
         The default usernames used by the services can be found in Hadoop Users (user:group) and
          Kerberos Principals.



Scripts involved
 Cloudera Manager invokes these external shell scripts to perform credential
        management: Base directory:
         /opt/cloudera/cm/bindelete_credentials_ad.shdelete_credentials_ipa.shdelete_credentials.shgen_credentials_ad.shgen_credentials_ipa.shgen_credentials.shimport_credentials_ipa.shimport_credentials.shmerge_credentials.sh

The “custom keytab retrieval script” will get a single principal name matching
         the above naming convention, and it should write the matching keytab to a directory also
         passed as an option to the script.
There is a basic sample script provided in Using a custom Kerberos keytab
          retrieval scrip.

None


Persistent storage of keytabs
Keytabs that are successfully retrieved will be stored in the
        Cloudera Manager-backed database to be deployed and used on demand.
 None. Required keytabs should be stored on the hosts manually. 


On-demand keytab merging

In case a service (role instance) requires multiple principals for operation,
         Cloudera Manager will merge the individual keytabs into a single combined keytab
         automatically.
For example: HDFS namenode uses both the “hdfs” and “HTTP” principal for operation.
         Cloudera Manager will create a merged keytab that contains both these principals.

None. In case a service (role instance) requires multiple principals for operation,
        keytabs provided for the services (role instance) are needed to be merged manually.


On-demand keytab deployment
Cloudera Manager will automatically deploy the required
        configuration and keytab files into the process directory of the given role instance through
        the Cloudera Manager Agent when starting a service/role instance.
None. All required keytabs will need to be present on the host(s) for a service before
        starting it. Cloudera Manager should be used to configure the location of these keytab files
        though.


Keytab filename

The keytab file & filename will be managed by Cloudera Manager. The keytab
         file will be deployed by the Cloudera Manager agent to the services process folder
         automatically.
The filenames used by Cloudera Manager can be found in Hadoop Users
          (user:group) and Kerberos Principals.

The name & location of the keytab file has to be specified manually, so it can be
        anything allowed by POSIX conventions.


Keytab file ownership and permissions

The “System User” of the respective service needs read-write access for the
         keytab file. Cloudera Manager will set the proper owner/group on the file with permission
         mode 600 (read-write for owner, no access for group/others)
Default owner/group and permissions can also be found in Hadoop Users
          (user:group) and Kerberos Principals.

The “System User” of the respective service needs read-write access for the keytab
        file. The proper permission and ownership of the file needs to be set manually.




Related informationHadoop Users (user:group) and Kerberos PrincipalsUsing a custom Kerberos keytab retrieval script