Cloudera Manager user accountsCloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager user accounts
Access to Cloudera Manager features is controlled by user accounts. A user account
    identifies how a user is authenticated and determines what privileges are granted to the
    user.
Minimum Required Role:
User
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
When you are logged in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, the username you are logged in
      as is located at the far right of the top navigation bar.
A user with the User Administrator or Full
      Administrator role manages user accounts through the
          Administration > Users
      page. View active user sessions on the User Sessions tab.

Parent topic: Configuring Authentication in Cloudera Manager
User Authentication

Cloudera Manager provides several mechanisms for authenticating users. You can
        configure Cloudera Manager to authenticate users against the Cloudera
        Manager database or against an external authentication service. The
        external authentication service can be an LDAP server (Active Directory
        or an OpenLDAP compatible directory), or you can specify another
        external service. Cloudera Manager also supports using the Security
        Assertion Markup Language (SAML) to enable single sign-on.
If you are using LDAP or another external service, you can configure
        Cloudera Manager so that it can use both methods of authentication
        (internal database and external service), and you can determine the
        order in which it performs these searches. If you select an external
        authentication mechanism, Full Administrator users can always
        authenticate against the Cloudera Manager database. This prevents
        locking everyone out if the authentication settings are misconfigured,
        such as with a bad LDAP URL.
With external authentication, you can restrict login access to members of
        specific groups, and can specify groups whose members are automatically
        given Full Administrator access to Cloudera Manager.
Users accounts in the Cloudera Manager database page show Cloudera
        Manager in the User Type column. User accounts in an LDAP directory
        or other external authentication mechanism show External in the
        User Type column.



User Roles

User accounts include the user's role, which determines the Cloudera Manager features
        visible to the user, the actions the user can perform, and, for certain roles, what clusters
        actions can be performed on. All tasks in the Cloudera Manager documentation indicate which
        role is required to perform the
        task.



Determining the Role of the Currently Logged in User


Click the logged-in username at the far right of the top navigation bar. 
Select My Profile. The role displays. For example:




Changing the Logged-In Internal User Password


Click the logged-in username  at the far right of the top navigation
          bar and select Change Password.
Enter the current password and a new password twice, and then click
            OK.




Adding an Internal User Account


Select Administration > Users.
Click the Add User button.
Enter a username and password.
In the Role drop-down menu, select a role for the new user.
Click Add.




Assigning User Roles


Select Administration > Users.
Check the checkbox next to one or more usernames.
Select Actions for Selected > Assign User Roles.
In the drop-down menu, select the role.
Click the Assign Role button.




Changing an Internal User Account Password


Select Administration > Users.
Click the Change Password button next to a username with User Type
          Cloudera Manager.
Type the new password and repeat it to confirm.
Click the Update button to make the change.




Deleting Internal User Accounts


Select Administration > Users.
Check the checkbox next to one or more usernames with User Type Cloudera
          Manager.
Select Actions for Selected > Delete.
Click the OK button. (There is no confirmation of the action.)




Viewing User Sessions


Select Administration > Users.
Click the tab User Sessions.



