Configuring Authentication in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring Authentication in Cloudera Manager
Overview of configuring Cloudera authentication. 
Cloudera clusters can be configured to use Kerberos for authentication using a manual
      configuration process or by using the configuration wizard available from the Cloudera Manager
      Admin Console. Cloudera recommends using the wizard because it automates many of the
      configuration and deployment tasks. In addition, enabling Kerberos the cluster using the
      wizard also enables Kerberos authentication for all CDP components set up on the cluster.

warningBefore enabling Kerberos authentication, configure Cloudera Manager for
        TLS/SSL. Failure to do so results in Kerberos keytabs being transferred over the network
        unencrypted.
        

Cloudera Manager Kerberos Wizard Overview
The Cloudera Manager Kerberos wizard starts by verifying various
        details of the Kerberos instance that will be used by the cluster.
        Before using the wizard, be sure to gather all the details about the
        Kerberos service or engage the Kerberos administrator for help during
        this process. There are many details of the Kerberos instance, and you
        will need to enter them in the wizard pages. 
The wizard requires a working KDC, either an MIT KDC, a FreeIPA server,
        or an Active Directory KDC. Make sure that the KDC is set up and working
        prior to starting the wizard. Administrator-level privileges to the
        Kerberos instance are required to complete the prompts of the wizard. If
        you do not have access to credentials with these privileges, the
        Kerberos administrator will need to assist you.
Given the information provided to the wizard entry screens, the
        configuration wizard does the following:
Configures the necessary properties in all configuration
              files—core-site.xml,
              hdfs-site.xml, mapred-site.xml,
            and taskcontroller.cfg—to set Kerberos as the
            authentication mechanism for the cluster
Configures the necessary properties in the
              oozie-site.xml and hue.ini files
            for Oozie and Hue for Kerberos authentication
Creates principal and keytab files for core system users, such as
              hdfs and mapred, and for CDP services
Distributes the keytab files to each host in the cluster
Creates keytab files for oozie and
              hue users and deploys to the appropriate hosts
            that support these client-focused services
Distributes a configured krb5.conf to all nodes
            in the cluster
Stops all services
Deploys client configurations
Restarts all services throughout the cluster



Keytab file for...
Principals



hdfs
hdfs, host



mapred
mapred, host


oozie
oozie, HTTP


hue
hue


The host principal is the same in both
          hdfs and mapred keytab files.
After making the configuration changes and deploying the keytabs, and
        configuration files to the appropriate nodes in the cluster, Cloudera
        Manager starts all services to stand up the cluster.



To use the Kerberos configuration wizard, see Enabling Kerberos Authentication for
                CDP.

To configure Kerberos authentication manually, see How to Configure Clusters to Use
              Kerberos for Authentication.


noteAuthorization through Apache Ranger is just one element of a secure production cluster: Cloudera supports Ranger only when it runs on a cluster where Kerberos is enabled to authenticate users.


Related informationEnabling Kerberos Authentication for CDPHow to Configure Clusters to Use Kerberos for AuthenticationCloudera Manager user accountsAccess to Cloudera Manager features is controlled by user accounts. A user account     identifies how a user is authenticated and determines what privileges are granted to the     user.Configuring external authentication and authorization for Cloudera ManagerCloudera Manager supports user authentication against an internal database and against     an external service. The following sections describe how to configure the supported external     services. Enabling Kerberos Authentication for CDPHow to use the Cloudera Manager Kerberos wizard to set up authentication. Kerberos authentication for non-default usersThe steps described here are only applicable if you are running one or more CDP     services with non-default users.Customizing Kerberos principalsHow to configure custom service principals in Cloudera Manager.Managing Kerberos credentials using Cloudera ManagerHow to regenerate Kerberos principals in Cloudera Manager. Using a custom Kerberos keytab retrieval scriptHow to manually create principals and keytabs using a custom retrieval script. Adding trusted realms to the clusterHow to specify trusted realms in Cloudera Manager. Using auth-to-local rules to isolate cluster usersHow to use auth-to-local rules to restrict user access to specific     clusters.