Adding trusted realms to the clusterCloudera Docs
Adding trusted realms to the cluster
How to specify trusted realms in Cloudera Manager. The Kerberos instance associated with a given cluster has its REALM-NAME
        specified as the default_realm in the Kerberos configuration file
          (krb5.conf) on the cluster's NameNode. Rules defined in the
          hadoop.security.auth_to_local property translate the Kerberos principals
        to local account names at the host
        level.
        The default rules simply remove the @REALM portion of the Kerberos
        principal and leave the short name.To allow principals from other realms to use the cluster, the trusted
      realms must be specified in Cloudera Manager. For example, the Kerberos
      realm used by your cluster may have a trust relationship to a central
      Active Directory or MIT Kerberos realm.  Add the central realm to the
      cluster as detailed in the following steps so that Cloudera Manager can
      apply the appropriate mapping rules to the principals from the trusted
      realm to access the cluster's services.To specify trusted realms using Cloudera Manager:Log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. Select Clusters > HDFS
            Service.Click the Configuration tab.Select HDFS (Service-Wide) for the
          Scope filter.Select Security for the
          Category filter.In the Search field, type Kerberos Realms to find the
          Trusted Kerberos Realms and
          Additional Rules to Map Kerberos Principals to Short
          Names settings.
Add other Kerberos realms that the cluster's realm can trust. Use all upper-case
          letters to specify the REALM name for MIT Kerberos or Active Directory realms:
ANOTHER-REALM.EXAMPLE.COMTo add multiple realms, click the plus
          (+) button.
Click Save Changes.For each trusted realm identified in Trusted Kerberos Realms, default
        mapping rules automatically strip the REALM name. To customize the mapping rules, specify
        additional rules in the Additional Rules to Map Kerberos Principals to Short
          Names setting, one rule per line. Cloudera Manager will wrap each rule in the
        appropriate XML tags and add to the generated core-site.xml file. To create
        custom rules and translate translate mixed-case Kerberos principals to lower-case Hadoop
        usernames.If you specify custom mapping rules for a Kerberos realm using the Additional
      Rules to Map Kerberos Principals to Short Names setting, ensure that
      the same realm is not specified in the Trusted Kerberos Realms
      setting. If it is, the auto-generated rule (which only strips the realm
      from the principal and does no additional transformations) takes
      precedent, and the custom rule is ignored.For these changes to take effect, you must restart the cluster and
      redeploy the client configuration, as follows: 
On the Cloudera Manager Admin Console,
              Clusters > Cluster-n to
          choose cluster-wide actions.
From the Actions drop-down button, select
            Deploy Client Configuration.

Parent topic: Configuring Authentication in Cloudera Manager