Step 4: Enable Kerberos using the wizardCloudera Docs
Step 4: Enable Kerberos using the wizard
How to enable Kerberos using the Cloudera Manager wizard. 
Related informationStep 3: Create the Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager ServerCustomizing Kerberos principalsParent topic: Enabling Kerberos Authentication for CDP
1. Getting Started




Set up a working KDC in Step 1 of the wizard as described below. Cloudera Manager
              supports authentication with MIT KDC, Active Directory, and Red Hat Identity
              Management/FreeIPA.
Configure the KDC to allow renewable tickets with non-zero ticket lifetimes.
                Active Directory allows renewable tickets with non-zero lifetimes by default. You
                can verify this by checking Domain Security Settings > Account Policies > Kerberos Policy in Active Directory.For MIT KDC, make sure you have the
                following lines in the
                kdc.conf.max_life = 1d  
max_renewable_life = 7d
If you are using Active Directory, make sure LDAP over TLS/SSL (LDAPS) is enabled
              for the Domain Controllers.
Host names must be in lowercase. If you use uppercase letters in any host
              name, the cluster services will not start after enabling Kerberos.
Create an account for Cloudera Manager that has the permissions to create other
              accounts in the KDC. This should have been completed as part of Step 3: Create the
                Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager Server.


important
If YARN Resource Manager HA has been enabled in a non-secure cluster, before enabling
            Kerberos you must clear the StateStore znode in ZooKeeper, as follows:

Go to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console home page, click to the right of the YARN
              service and select Stop.
When you see a Finished status, the service has stopped.
Go to the YARN service and select Actions > Format State Store.
When the command completes, click Close.


note
Minimum Required Role:
Full
            Administrator. This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.



To start the Kerberos wizard, open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, click the
            options menu for the applicable cluster, then click Enable Kerberos.






After you open the Kerberos wizard, a Getting Started page appears. Select the
            applicable KDC type to display configuration steps for your specific type of KDC. When
            you have completed all of the configuration steps, select the I have completed all
              the above steps check box, then click Continue. 









2. Enter KDC Information


Enter configuration information for the KDC you are using. note

If you have multiple Domain Controllers (in case of AD) or MIT KDC servers, only
                enter the name of any one of them in the KDC Server Host field.
                Cloudera Manager will use that server only for creating accounts. Do not use a
                round-robin DNS for KDCs in the krb5.conf file. If you choose to
                use Cloudera Manager to manage the krb5.conf file, you can specify
                the additional Domain Controllers using the Advanced Configuration
                  Snippet (Safety Valve) for the Default Realm in krb5.conf property as
                explained below. Fault tolerance and load balancing can be achieved by specifying
                more than one (usually 2-3) KDCs, using their FQDNs or IP addresses. This, along
                with a kdc_timeout parameter of 3-5 seconds, allows all Kerberos
                clients (including Java GSS-API) to attempt communication with the next KDC in the
                event of a KDC failure.
Make sure the entries for the Kerberos Encryption Types field matches what
                your KDC supports.
If you are using an Active Directory KDC, you can configure Active Directory
                account properties such as objectClass and
                  accountExpires directly from the Cloudera Manager UI. You can
                also enable Cloudera Manager to delete existing AD accounts so that new ones can be
                created when Kerberos credentials are being regenerated.
                
To use AES encryption, make sure you have deployed JCE Unlimited Strength Policy
                File, which is automatically included in Open JDK 1.8 232 (provided by Cloudera at
                the time of install) and up, but may not be available on some of the earlier JDK 1.8
                releases.




In the Active Directory KDC example below, we entered values for the Kerberos
              Security Realm, the KDC Server Host, and the Active Directory
            Suffix, and also selected the Active Directory Delete Accounts on Credential
              Regeneration check box.






Click Continue to proceed.




3. Manage krb5.conf


You can use this page to specify whether or not Cloudera Manager deploys and manages the
            krb5.conf file on your cluster. 


If you select the Manage krb5.conf through Cloudera Manager check box, you can
            use this page to configure the krb5.conf file properties. In
            particular, the safety valves on this page can be used to configure cross-realm
            authentication.
            
To configure multiple KDCs (as mentioned in the previous section), you can specify
            the additional Domain Controllers using the Advanced Configuration Snippet
              (Safety Valve) for the Default Realm in krb5.conf property box. For
            example:  
kdc = kdc2.supportlab.cloudera.com
kdc = kdc3.supportlab.cloudera.com
kdc = kdcN.supportlab.cloudera.com







If left unchecked, you must ensure that the krb5.conf is deployed on
            all hosts in the cluster, including the Cloudera Manager Server host.

note
If you are using Red Hat IdM/FreeIPA, by default the krb5.conf
                file contains a line similar to the following:
default_ccache_name = KEYRING:persistent:%{uid}
CDP does not support the keyring credential cache. Comment out this line on every
                cluster host by adding a hash mark (#) at the beginning, like
                this:
#default_ccache_name = KEYRING:persistent:%{uid}
If you configure Cloudera Manager to manage the krb5.conf file,
                you do not need to do anything.



Click Continue to proceed.




4. Enter Account Credentials



noteEnter the REALM portion of the principal in upper-case only to conform to Kerberos
            convention. 
note
Many enterprises employ policies that require all passwords to be changed after a
              particular number of days. you can use the following steps to change the password in
              Cloudera Manager for the Account Manager:

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, select Administration > Security.
Go to the Kerberos Credentials tab and click
                  Import Kerberos Account Manager Credentials.
In the Import Kerberos Account Manager Credentials dialog
                box, enter the user name and password for the user that can create principals for
                CDP cluster in the KDC. 





Enter the user name and password for the user that can create principals for CDP
            cluster in the KDC. This is the user/principal you created in Step 3: Create the
              Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager Server. Cloudera Manager encrypts the user
            name and password into a keytab and uses it as needed to create new principals.

If you are using Red Hat IdM/FreeIPA, enter the IPA admin credentials here. These
              admin credentials are not stored, and are used only to create a new user and role
              (named cmadin-<random_id> and
                cmadminrole, respectively) and retrieve its keytab. Cloudera
              Manager stores this keytab for future Kerberos operations, such as regenerating the
              credentials of the CDP service accounts.





Click Continue to proceed.




5. Command Details


The Command Details page displays the outcome of the
              Enter Account Credentials step. Click
              Continue to proceed.









6. Configure Kerberos


If you have not already done so, run the provided commands on each cluster host to
            install the Kerberos client libraries.






The wizard automatically sets the privileged ports needed by the DataNode Transceiver
            Protocol and the HTTP Web UI, but you can also specify alternate privileged ports.

noteIf SSL is enabled, the assigned port numbers will be higher than 1024; if SSL is
              not enabled, the assigned port numbers will be less than 1024. 


To configure custom service principals, clear the Use Default Kerberos
              Principals check box, and then specify a custom principal for each
            service.

noteBefore configuring custom service principals, see Customizing Kerberos
                principals for additional information.


Click Continue to proceed.




7. Command Details


The Command Details page displays the outcome of the
              Enable Kerberos command. It may take a few minutes for these
            steps to complete. 

If an error message appears, you can fix the error, then click Resume. In the
              following example, we select Administration > Settings > Kerberos, then enter
              an invalid file name in the Custom Kerberos Keytab Retrieval Script box.  





This causes a credential generation error. In this case we can remove the invalid
              script setting, then click Resume to resume the Enable Kerberos command. 





After the command finishes running, click Continue to
              proceed.








8. Summary


The final step of the wizard lists the cluster(s) for which Kerberos has been
          successfully enabled. Click Finish to return to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console
          home page.





To view details about Kerberos-enabled services, select Administration > Security,
          then click the applicable row in the Kerberos column. 



Click View Kerberos Configuration to view and edit configuration details for each
          service. Click Save Changes to save any configuration updates. 




note
The first five steps of this wizard can also be performed before cluster creation by
              selecting Administration > Security > Kerberos Credentials > Setup KDC for this
                Cloudera Manager. If that has already been done, the first five steps of this
              wizard do not appear. 





