Enabling Kerberos Authentication for CDPCloudera Docs
Enabling Kerberos Authentication for CDP
How to use the Cloudera Manager Kerberos wizard to set up authentication. 
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
Cloudera Manager provides a wizard for integrating your organization's
      Kerberos instance with your cluster to provide authentication services. 
Kerberos must already be deployed in your organization and the Kerberos
      key distribution center (KDC) must be ready to use, with a realm
      established. If you are using Red Hat Identity Management/FreeIPA, all of
      your cluster hosts must already be joined to the IPA domain. For Hue and
      Oozie, the Kerberos realm must support renewable tickets. 

importantBefore integrating Kerberos with your cluster, configure
        TLS encryption between Cloudera Manager Server and all Cloudera Manager Agent host systems
        in the cluster. During the Kerberos integration process, Cloudera Manager Server sends
        keytab files to the Cloudera Manager Agent hosts, and TLS encrypts the network communication
        so these files are protected.
        

Cloudera Manager clusters can be integrated with MIT Kerberos, Red Hat Identity Management
      (or the upstream FreeIPA), or Microsoft Active
      Directory.
For Active Directory, you must have administrative privileges to the
      Active Directory instance for initial setup and for on-going management,
      or you will need to have the help of your AD administrator prior to and
      during the integration process. For example, administrative access is
      needed to access the Active Directory KDC, create principals, and
      troubleshoot Kerberos TGT/TGS-ticket-renewal and take care of any other
      issues that may arise.
For Red Hat IdM, make sure that all cluster hosts are joined to the IPA
      domain. You can join a host to the domain by installing the
        freeipa-client package and then running the
        ipa-client-install script.
Kerberos client OS-specific packages must be installed on all cluster hosts and client
      hosts that will authenticate using Kerberos.

OS
Packages Required



RHEL 7 Compatible, RHEL 6 Compatible


openldap-clients on the Cloudera Manager Server host
krb5-workstation, krb5-libs on ALL
                    hosts
(Red Hat IdM/FreeIPA only)
freeipa-client on all cluster hosts




SLES


openldap2-client on the Cloudera Manager Server host
krb5-client on ALL hosts
(Red Hat IdM/FreeIPA only)
freeipa-client on all cluster hosts




Ubuntu


ldap-utils on the Cloudera Manager Server host
krb5-user on ALL hosts
(Red Hat IdM/FreeIPA only)
freeipa-client on all cluster hosts




Cloudera supports the Kerberos version that ships with each supported operating system listed
      in Operating System Requirements.

Related informationOperating System RequirementsStep 1: Install Cloudera Manager and CDPCloudera strongly recommends that you install and configure the Cloudera Manager Server     and Cloudera Manager Agents and CDP to set up a fully-functional CDP cluster before     trying to configure Kerberos authentication for the cluster. Step 2: Install JCE policy files for AES-256 encryptionHow to install JCE policy files, if required. Step 3: Create the Kerberos Principal for Cloudera Manager ServerHow to create a Kerberos principal for Cloudera Manager Server. Step 4: Enable Kerberos using the wizardHow to enable Kerberos using the Cloudera Manager wizard. Step 5: Create the HDFS superuserTo create home directories for users, you need access to the HDFS superuser     account.Step 6: Get or create a Kerberos principal for each user accountHow to create a Kerberos principal for a user account.Step 7: Prepare the cluster for each userBefore users access the cluster, there are a few tasks you must complete to prepare the     hosts for each user.Step 8: Verify that Kerberos security is workingVerify that Kerberos security is working by running test MapReduce jobs. Step 9: (Optional) Enable authentication for HTTP web consoles for Hadoop rolesAuthentication for access to the web consoles for the HDFS and YARN     roles can be enabled using a configuration option for the appropriate service.Parent topic: Configuring Authentication in Cloudera Manager