OverviewCloudera Docs
Overview
Authentication is a process that requires users and services to prove their identity
    when trying to access a system resource. 
Organizations typically manage user identity and authentication through various
      time-tested technologies, including pluggable authentication modules (PAM), Lightweight
      Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) for identity, directory, and other services, such as group
      management, and Kerberos for authentication.
Cloudera clusters support integration with all of these technologies. For example,
      organizations with existing LDAP directory services such as Active Directory (included in
      Microsoft Windows Server as part of its suite of Active Directory Services) can leverage the
      organization's existing user accounts and group listings instead of creating new accounts
      throughout the cluster. Using an external system such as Active Directory or
      OpenLDAP can support the user role authorization
      mechanism.
As an alternative to LDAP, you can use pluggable authentication modules (PAM), which are
      standard Linux modules used for external authentication. In Cloudera Manager, PAM
      configuration is simpler than LDAP, and systems administrators can add new authentication
      methods by installing new PAM modules. If you have multiple LDAP servers, you can configure
      PAM to synchronize with LDAP using System Security Services Daemon (SSSD), as Cloudera Manager
      does not otherwise support multiple LDAP servers. You can also configure Cloudera Manager to
      use Apache Knox for authentication and PAM to look up users and roles stored in LDAP.
For authentication, Cloudera supports integration with MIT
      Kerberos and with Active Directory. Microsoft Active Directory supports
      Kerberos for authentication in addition to its identity management and
      directory functionality, that is, LDAP. 
Kerberos provides strong authentication, strong
      meaning that cryptographic mechanisms—rather than passwords alone—are used
      in the exchange between requesting process and service during the
      authentication process.
These systems are not mutually exclusive. For example, Microsoft Active Directory
      is an LDAP directory service that also provides Kerberos authentication services, and Kerberos
      credentials can be stored and managed in an LDAP directory service. Cloudera Manager Server,
      CDP nodes, and Cloudera Enterprise components, such as Apache Hive,
      Hue, and Impala, can all make use of Kerberos authentication.
noteCloudera does not provide a Kerberos implementation but
      rather can use MIT Kerberos or Microsoft Server Active Directory service
      and its KDC for authentication.
noteCloudera supports Ranger only when it runs on a cluster where Kerberos is enabled to authenticate users.
Configuring the cluster to use Kerberos requires having administrator
      privileges—and access to—the Kerberos server Key Distribution Center (KDC). The process may
      require debugging issues between the Cloudera Manager cluster and the KDC. noteIntegrating clusters to use Microsoft Active Directory as a KDC requires the Windows
        registry setting for AllowTgtSessionKey to be disabled (set to 0). If this
        registry key has already been enabled, users and credentials are not created—despite the
        "Successful" message at the end of the configuration/integration process. Before configuring
        Active Directory for use as KDC, check the value of AllowTgtSessionKey on
        the Active Directory instance and reset to 0 if necessary.
        
On each host operating system underlying each node in a cluster, local Linux
        user:group accounts are created during installation of Cloudera Server and
      CDP services. To apply per-node authentication and authorization mechanism consistently across
      all the nodes of a cluster, local user:group accounts are mapped to user
      accounts and groups in an LDAP-compliant directory service, such as Active Directory or
      OpenLDAP.
      
To facilitate the authentication process from each host system (node in the cluster) to the
      LDAP directory, Cloudera recommends using additional software mechanisms such as SSSD
      or
      Centrify Server Suite.
      


