Configuring custom Kerberos principal for Hive and Hive-on-TezCloudera Docs
Configuring custom Kerberos principal for Hive and Hive-on-Tez
Use the steps given here to configure a custom Kerberos principal for Hive and
        Hive-on-Tez.

importantCloudera Manager configures
            CDP services to use the default Kerberos principal names. Cloudera recommends that you
            do not change the default Kerberos principal names. If it is unavoidable to do so,
            contact Cloudera Professional Services because it requires extensive additional custom
            configuration.


Create a new Hive custom Kerberos principal, for example,
                        hivefoo, by using the
                        kadmin command.


kadmin
  addprinc -pw example hivefoo
  xst -k /tmp/hivefoo.keytab


Create a linux user on all hosts of this cluster.


useradd hivefoo
usermod -a -G hive hivefoo



In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters > HIVE and click
                        Actions > Stop to stop the Hive services.

In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters > HIVE >
                        Configuration and search for “Kerberos”.

Enter the custom Kerberos principal, hivefoo, in the Kerberos
                        Principal field.

The /hiveserver2 node is created when the HiveServer2 is launched for the first
                    time. All instance nodes are created under /hiveserver2. When the kerberos
                    principal name is changed, the parent node must be deleted so that a new parent
                    node can be automatically recreated with the new ACL.


kinit zookeeper

zookeeper-client
  delete /hiveserver2


Use the following commands to set up the HDFS user home directory:


kinit hdfs
hadoop fs -mkdir /user/hivefoo
hadoop fs -chown hivefoo:hive /user/hivefoo



In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters > YARN >
                        Configuration and search for Allowed System
                        Users. Use the Add (+) icon to add hivefoo to the list of
                        Allowed System Users.

In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters > HIVE and click
                        Actions > Start to start Hive services.


Parent topic: Customizing Kerberos principals