Configuring custom Kerberos principal for KafkaCloudera Docs
Configuring custom Kerberos principal for Kafka
In a Kerberos-enabled cluster, the Kafka service uses the kafka principal by default.
    Changing the default principal and using custom principals is supported. Principals can be
    configured on a service-wide level in Cloudera Manager with the Kerberos Principal
    property.

importantCloudera Manager configures
            CDP services to use the default Kerberos principal names. Cloudera recommends that you
            do not change the default Kerberos principal names. If it is unavoidable to do so,
            contact Cloudera Professional Services because it requires extensive additional custom
            configuration.
If you are using a custom process user, ensure that the custom Kerberos principal is set to
        the default Kafka service principal.


Access to Kafka znodes is restricted by default. Configuring the principal is only possible
        if access to the Kafka znodes in Zookeeper is unlocked. As a result, you must ensure that
        access to znodes is unlocked. For more information, see Unlocking access to Kafka metadata in Zookeeper.

In Cloudera Manager select the Kafka service.Go to Configuration.Find the Kerberos Principal property and enter your
          principal.Click Save Changes.Restart the Kafka service.
The custom principal is configured for Kafka. Kafka uses the configured
      principal.


Restrict znode access. For more information, see Restricting access to Kafka
            metadata in Zookeeper.
If you use Ranger for authorization, update the principal in all resource-based services
          and policies that use the old principal. The exact services and policies you need to
            update depend on your environment and cluster setup. At minimum you need to update the
            principal in the Kafka and Solr resource-based services. For more information on
            updating resource-based services and policies, see Using Ranger to Provide
              Authorization in CDP
Update all Kafka clients to use the new principal. 



Related informationRestricting access to Kafka metadata in ZookeeperUsing Ranger to Provide Authorization in CDPParent topic: Customizing Kerberos principals