Configuring custom Kerberos principal for Streams Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring custom Kerberos principal for Streams Replication Manager
In a Kerberos-enabled cluster, the Streams Replication Manager (SRM) service uses the
    streamsrepmgr principal by default. The principal can be configured in Cloudera Manager with the
    Kerberos Principal property.

importantCloudera Manager configures
            CDP services to use the default Kerberos principal names. Cloudera recommends that you
            do not change the default Kerberos principal names. If it is unavoidable to do so,
            contact Cloudera Professional Services because it requires extensive additional custom
            configuration.
The principal specified in the Kerberos Principal property is used
        by the SRM service (Driver and Service roles) when it establishes a connection with its
        co-located Kafka cluster. Additionally, this principal is also used for Kerberos-enabled
        clusters defined with a Kafka credential, but only if there is no specific JAAS
        configuration set for that cluster. 
For example, if you have a Kerberos-enabled external Kafka cluster that you defined with a
        Kafka credential, but did not specify a JAAS configuration, SRM falls back to using the
        default JAAS configuration which contains the principal defined in the Kerberos
          Principal property.
importantThe principal set in the Kerberos Principal
        property is only used by the SRM service. Configuring the property does not affect the
        principal used by the srm-control tool. For more information on how to
        configure the srm-control tool, see Configuring srm-control.
      

In Cloudera Manager select the SRM service.Go to Configuration.Find the Kerberos Principal property and enter the custom
          Kerberos principal.Click Save Changes.Restart the SRM service.
The custom principal used by SRM is configured.
If you use Ranger for authorization, update all resource-based services and
      policies that use the old principal and add the new principal. For more information on
      updating resource-based services and policies, see Using Ranger to Provide Authorization
        in CDP.

Related informationUsing Ranger to Provide Authorization in CDPConfiguring srm-control