Configuring Basic Authentication for SRM Services that have Remote Querying enabledCloudera Docs
Configuring Basic Authentication for SRM Services that have Remote Querying
    enabled
If a Streams Replication Manager (SRM) Service has Remote Querying enabled, it will
    connect to other, remote SRM Services to fetch the remote cluster replication metrics. If the
    remote SRM Service has Basic Authentication (BA) enabled, the SRM Service that has Remote
    Querying enabled must be provided with valid credentials that it can use to connect to the
    remote SRM Service. 

Remote Querying is a feature of the SRM Service that enables you to configure an SRM
        Service in your deployment to connect to other, remote SRM Services and fetch the remote
        cluster replication metrics gathered by the remote Service. This allows you to monitor the
        replications of a whole deployment that has multiple installations of SRM through a single
        SRM and Streams Messaging Manager service. For more information on Remote Querying, see
          Remote Querying.
If the remote SRM Services are configured to use BA, the SRM Services that have Remote
        Querying enabled (monitoring gateways) require valid credentials that can be used to access
        the remote SRM Services. As a result, the credentials required to access the remote SRM
        Services must be provided to the monitoring gateways.
Configuration is done in Cloudera Manager by creating Streams Replication Manager
          Service Credentials and then configuring the monitoring gateways to use these
        credentials for Remote Querying. 



Basic authentication is set up and configured for the remote SRM Services. For more
          information on how to enable Basic authentication see, Enabling Basic Authentication for the SRM
            Service.noteYour deployment might include multiple remote SRM Services and some
            of them might not have BA enabled. In a case like this, you only need to create and
            configure credentials for the remote services that have BA enabled. Unsecured remote SRM
            Services can be remotely queried without additional configuration.
Remote querying is enabled and configured. For more information see, Enabling Remote Querying
Ensure that you have access to the BA usernames and passwords used by the remote SRM
          Services. You will need to provide these during configuration. These usernames and
          passwords were configured using Basic Authentication Credentials when you enabled BA for
          the remote SRM Services.


Access the Cloudera Manager instance managing the SRM Service that has Remote
          Querying enabled (monitoring gateway). Create Streams Replication Manager Credentials:A Streams Replication
          Manager Credential represents a remote SRM Service that has Basic Authentication enabled.
          The credential stores the information necessary to establish a connection with the remote
          SRM Service. Create a credential for each BA enabled remote SRM Service. 
Go to Administration  > External
                  Accounts  > Streams Replication Manager
                  Credentials.
Click Add Streams Replication Manager Service
                Credentials.
Configure the following properties: 

NameAdd a unique and easily identifiable name. Note
                    down the name you configure, you will need to provide it in a later
                  step.
Remote Streams Replication Manager Service target Kafka cluster
                    aliasThis is the alias of the Kafka cluster that the remote SRM
                    Service (which this credential represents) is targeting. The alias that you add
                    here must be one of the aliases that you added to the Streams Replication
                      Manager Service Remote Target Clusters property when you enabled Remote
                    Querying.
Username and PasswordAdd the
                    username and password pair that can be used to access the remote SRM Service
                    that this credential represents. Both the username and password that you add
                    here must be valid. That is, in the Cloudera Manager instance managing the
                    remote SRM Service, a Basic Authentication credential must exist with this
                    username and password combination. Additionally, the remote SRM Service must be
                    configured to use these credentials.

To better understand how Streams Replication Manager Service Credentials should be
                configured, review the following two cluster example:

In this specific example, a single Streams Replication Manager Service
                Credential must be created in Cloudera Manager A. This credential represents SRM
                Service B and will be used by SRM Service A to access SRM Service B. The credential
                would be configured as
                follows:Name: srm_b
Remote Streams Replication Manager Service target Kafka cluster alias: kafka_b
Username: admin
Password: password


Configure this SRM Service (monitoring gateway) to use the credentials when
          querying the remote SRM Service: 
Go to Clusters and select the Streams Replication
              Manager Service. 
Go to Configuration. 
Find and Configure the External Accounts For Remote Querying SRM
                Services property. 
Add the names of all Streams Replication Manager Service Credentials you
              created in Step 1. For example: 
remote_1
remote_2
remote_3

Click Save Changes.Restart Streams Replication Manager.
The credentials required to access the remote SRM Services are set up and
      configured. When this SRM Service establishes a connection with the configured remote SRM
      Services, it uses the configured credentials.


Access the Replications page on the SMM UI. Remote replications
          will be visible in the UI.
Query metrics using the SRM REST API. For example:
Go to Streams Replication Manager  > 
                  Web UI  >  SRM Service Swagger
              UI.
Find and open the /v2/replications endpoint.
Click Try it out then click
                Execute.The response includes all discovered replications,
                replicated topics, and various other metrics. This includes replications that target
                remote clusters.




Related informationRemote QueryingParent topic: Configuring Basic Authentication for the SRM Service