Impala Shell Command ReferenceCloudera Docs
Impala Shell Command Reference
Use the following commands within impala-shell to
    pass requests to the impalad daemon that the shell is
    connected to. You can enter a command interactively at the prompt or pass it
    as the argument to the -q option of
      impala-shell.


 Command 
 Explanation 




 Impala SQL statements


You can issue valid SQL statements to be executed.





connect



 Connects to the specified instance of impalad. The default port
                of 21050 is assumed unless you provide another value. You can connect to any host in
                your cluster that is running impalad. If you connect to an instance
                of impalad that was started with an alternate port specified by the
                  --fe_port flag, you must provide that alternate port.





help



 Help provides a list of all available commands and options.
              





history



 Maintains an enumerated cross-session command history. This
                history is stored in the ~/.impalahistory
                file. 





profile



 Displays low-level information about the most recent query.
                Used for performance diagnosis and tuning. The report starts
                with the same information as produced by the
                  EXPLAIN statement and the
                  SUMMARY command.





quit



 Exits the shell. Remember to include the final semicolon so
                that the shell recognizes the end of the command. 





rerun or @



 Executes a previous impala-shell command
                again, from the list of commands displayed by the
                  history command. These could be SQL
                statements, or commands specific to
                  impala-shell such as quit
                or profile. 
 Specify an integer argument. A positive integer
                  N represents the command labelled
                  N in the output of the
                  HISTORY command. A negative integer
                  -N represents the Nth
                command from the end of the list, such as -1 for the most recent
                command. Commands that are executed again do not produce new
                entries in the HISTORY output list. 





set



 Manages query options for an impala-shell
                session. These options are used for query tuning and
                troubleshooting. Issue SET with no arguments to
                see the current query options, either based on the
                  impalad defaults, as specified by you at
                  impalad startup, or based on earlier
                  SET statements in the same session. To modify
                option values, issue commands with the syntax set
                    option=value.
                To restore an option to its default, use the
                  unset command. 





shell



 Executes the specified command in the operating system shell
                without exiting impala-shell. You can use the
                  ! character as shorthand for the
                  shell command. 
note Quote any instances of the -- or
                  /* tokens to avoid them being interpreted as
                the start of a comment. To embed comments within
                  source or ! commands, use
                the shell comment character # before the
                comment portion of the line. 





source or src



 Executes one or more statements residing in a specified file
                from the local filesystem. Allows you to perform the same kinds
                of batch operations as with the -f option, but
                interactively within the interpreter. The file can contain SQL
                statements and other impala-shell commands,
                including additional SOURCE commands to perform
                a flexible sequence of actions. Each command or statement,
                except the last one in the file, must end with a semicolon. 





summary



 Summarizes the work performed in various stages of a query. It
                provides a higher-level view of the information displayed by the
                  EXPLAIN command. Added in Impala 1.4.0.
 The time, memory usage, and so on reported by
                  SUMMARY only include the portions of the
                statement that read data, not when data is written. Therefore,
                the PROFILE command is better for checking the
                performance and scalability of INSERT
                statements. 
You can see a continuously updated report of the summary
                information while a query is in progress.





unset



 Removes any user-specified value for a query option and
                returns the option to its default value. 
You can also use it to remove user-specified substitution
                variables using the notation UNSET
                    VAR:variable_name. 





use



 Indicates the database against which to run subsequent
                commands. Lets you avoid using fully qualified names when
                referring to tables in databases other than
                  default. Not effective with the
                  -q option, because that option only allows a
                single statement in the argument. 





version



 Returns Impala version information. 




