Connecting to a kerberized Impala daemonCloudera Docs
Connecting to a kerberized Impala daemon
Using an impala-shell session you can connect to an impalad daemon
        to issue queries. When you connect to an impalad, it coordinates the execution of all
        queries sent to it. You can run impala-shell to connect to a Kerberized
        Impala instance over HTTP in a cluster.

Kerberos is an enterprise-grade authentication system Impala supports. Kerberos
                provides strong security benefits including capabilities that render intercepted
                authentication packets unusable by an attacker. It virtually eliminates the threat
                of impersonation by never sending a user's credentials in cleartext over the
                network. Cloudera recommends using impala-shell with Kerberos authentication for
                strong security benefits while accessing an Impala instance.



Locate the hostname that is running the impalad daemon. 
28000 is the default port impalad daemon uses to transmit commands and
                    receive results from client applications over HTTP using the HiveServer2
                    protocol. Ensure that this port is open.
Ensure that the host running impala-shell has a preexisting
                    kinit-cached Kerberos ticket that impala-shell can pass to the
                    impala server automatically without the need for the user to reenter the
                    password.
To override any client connection errors, you should run the Kinit
                    command to retrieve the Ticket Granting Ticket or to extend it if it has already
                    expired.



To enable Kerberos in the Impala shell, start the impala-shell
                    command using the -k flag.

For impala-shell to communicate with the Impala daemon over
                    HTTP through the HiveServer2 protocol, specify --protocol=hs2-http as the
                    protocol.


impala-shell -i xxxx-cdh-7-2-3.vpc.cloudera.com -k --protocol=hs2-http
Starting Impala Shell with Kerberos authentication using Python 2.7.5
Using service name 'impala'
Warning: --connect_timeout_ms is currently ignored with HTTP transport.
Opened TCP connection to xxxx-cdh-7-2-3.vpc.cloudera.com:28000
Connected to xxxx-cdh-7-2-3.vpc.cloudera.com:28000
Server version: impalad version 4.0.0-SNAPSHOT RELEASE (build d18b1c1d3f7230d330b58928513c20e90bab0153)




