Workload Aware Auto-Scaling in ImpalaCloudera Docs
Workload Aware Auto-Scaling in Impala
Workload Aware Auto-Scaling (WAAS) is available as a technical preview. WAAS allocates
  Impala Virtual Warehouse resources based on the workload that is running.
The Workload Aware Auto-Scaling (WAAS) technical preview improves auto-scaling for the
   following types of workloads:
Mixed or unknown workloads
On-premises workloads you are migrating to CDW
Workloads running on a big cluster
Workloads subject to queries with varying resource requirements
Workloads you cannot easily segregate into different Virtual Warehouses
Workloads clients must access from a single static endpointIf you have already
      successfully segregated your workloads using multiple Virtual Warehouses, the benefits of
      enabling WAAS may be limited. The multiple Virtual Warehouse approach typically works well in
      this case.Without WAAS, if you have mixed workloads, you size your Virtual
      Warehouse for the most resource-intensive queries, so the Virtual Warehouse can handle all
      your workloads. With WAAS, if you have mixed workloads, you define constraints for the overall warehouse size.
   You can add multiple sizes of executor group sets to spin up if needed by the workload. Within
   the executor group set, executor groups spin up or shut down as warranted by the workload. Each
   executor group set is mapped to an admission control resource pool, discussed later.An executor group set is analogous
      to a range of nodes assigned to a Virtual Warehouse of a particular size. Dynamic provisioning
      of mixed workloads uses two, or more, executor group sets instead of a one-size-fits-all
      executor group. The graphic below depicts two executor groups sets in a WAAS Virtual Warehouse:
group-set-small configured for 2 executor groups (small)
group-set-large configured for 8 executor groups (large)
Within any executor group set are executor groups, all of the same size.


The following graphic depicts scaling that occurs when you run a large query. The executor
   group set is chosen based on the workload. The group-set-large spins up an executor group of size
   8: 

Using the UI shown below, you follow step-by-step instructions to configure a Small and Large
   executor group set.



You can expect the Small executor group set to handle the majority of cases, similar
   to a small (tee-shirt sized) Virtual Warehouse. This group keeps minimum resources for services.
   The Large executor group set can scale up greatly to service analytic queries. In Min No. of
   Groups, you configure a minimum number of groups to be allocated for processing queries before
   Impala auto-suspends. You configure a maximum number of groups based on your budget.
When migrating from a bare metal installation where your workload would run on
   hundreds of nodes, or more, consider also configuring an intermediate size using a Custom Set.
   You can add up to three Custom Sets for a total of five executor group sets. Cloudera recommends
   starting with no custom sets, establishing benchmarks, and adding one custom set at a time.
The following comparison highlights the differences in auto-scaling with and without
    WAAS.Table 1. 

Without WAAS
With WAAS



Executors provisioned when query runs for one-size-fits-all Virtual
        Warehouse
Executor group sets provisioned dynamically within range limits


Scaling occurs in multiples of the one-size-fits-all Virtual
        Warehouse
Scaling occurs within configured limits of two or more executor group
        sets


Small queries can run on the larger than necessary Virtual Warehouse
Small queries run on a smaller executor group set


Unused CPU expenses hard to control
Unused CPU expenses of manageable


Large queries cannot run on a small Virtual Warehouse
Large queries run on an executor group of the appropriate size 


SLA hard to manage
SLA manageable


Workload Aware Auto-Scaling uses replanning, described in the next topic, to select an executor
   group set.

How WAAS worksThe Impala planner traverses successively larger executor groups iteratively to find one     to run the query efficiently. Traversal stops when the planner finds an acceptable executor     group set. In Workload Aware Auto-Scaling, this process is called replanning.WAAS tuningYou can use an Impala query option to control query routing. You can also set a   parameter to restrict queries from running in parallel under certain circumstances.