App DesignerCloudera Docs
App Designer
Cloudera Data Visualization App Designer is an intuitive and
    highly configurable interface for building applications. You can use it to build applications,
    customize the tabs of the apps, populate the tabs with relevant dashboards. You can also style
    your apps with custom logos, colors, and text.
The App Designer page has the following parts in the main area:




App Designer top menu bar
App Designer side menu bar
App Navigation tab
App Style tab
Preview area

App Designer top menu bar




The SAVE button saves all changes to the application.
The UNDO button reverts all changes back to the last save
          operation.
The Supplemental menu provides access to additional functions: 
The Clone App option lets you clone the current
              application.
The New Dashboard option opens the Dashboard
                Designer interface so you can create a new dashboard.
The New App option opens on a fresh/blank view of
                App Designer, so you can create a new application.
The Delete App option lets you delete the current
              application.


The workspace selector lets you assign the application to a Private,
            Public, or Custom workspace. For more information on workspaces, see
            Workspaces in CDP Data Visualization.
The App Name text box lets you specify the name of the
          application. You can change this name at any time. note This name appears in the browser
            tab. The ID appears after the first time you save the application. Last updated
            information appears after the first save, and indicates how recently the app was
            updated. Modified by information appears after the first save, and names the user who
            made the most recent changes to the application. 



App Designer sidebar




Recently Viewed Dashboards appear at the top of the
            Dashboards menu.
The Connection drop-down list lets you select an alternate
          connection.
The Dataset drop-down list lets you select an alternate
          dataset.
Dashboards available in the specified dataset appear under the
            Dataset drop-down list.
The menu selector enables you to choose between Dashboards,
            Settings, and Style menus. The Dashboards
          menu is usually used for configuring the navigation of the application, and the other two
          menus for styling the application.


App Navigation tab
The App Navigation view exposes all elements necessary to
        configuring the structure of the app: the tabs and their order, and the dashboards that
        appear in each tab. You can use the elements of the Dashboards menu
        to find the relevant dashboards for your app.




The information icon provides in-browser instructions on how to use the App
            Designer. If you hover over the icon, the following tooltip appears: 



The ADD MENU TAB button enables you to add additional tabs to
          your application.
The preview area shows the tabs of your application as tiles. You can specify the
            name of each tab, add dashboards to the tabs, change the order of dashboards in one tab,
            or move the dashboards between the tabs. You can also move the tiles around to change
            the order of the tabs, or remove a tab from the application by clicking the delete icon
            at the top of the tile.
You can click a dashboard to open it in a new browser tab, in
              View mode if you want to make changes to it.



App Style tab
The App Style view focuses on how to style an application.




The logo of the application. You can set a custom logo from the
            Style menu in the sidebar.
The application tabs added in the App Navigation tab appear here.
          If more than one dashboard is added to a tab a dropdown menu will let you choose between
          them.
The preview area of the view. The selected dashboards are added here with their current
          style.



Related informationCreating a new applicationWorkspaces in CDP Data Visualization