Configuring the CLI clientCloudera Docs
Configuring the CLI client
The CDE CLI client uses a configuration file,
      ~/.cde/config.yaml, to define the default CDE virtual
    cluster to interact with, as well as other configuration
    parameters.

Make sure that you have downloaded the CDE CLI client.

Determine the virtual cluster endpoint URL.
Navigate to the Cloudera Data Engineering
                Overview page.
In the Environments column,
              select the environment containing the virtual cluster you want to
              access using the CLI.
In the Virtual Clusters column on
              the right, click the Cluster Details icon
              for the virtual cluster you want to access.
Click JOBS API URL to copy the
              URL to your clipboard.
noteCurrently, the URL copied to your
                clipboard begins with http://, not
                  https://. To use the URL, you must manually
                change this to https://.


On the host with the CLI client, create or edit the configuration file at
                        ~/.cde/config.yaml.  You can create multiple profiles in
                    the ~/.cde/config.yaml file and can be used while running
                    commands. For more information, see Creating and using multiple profiles.

noteYou can use a custom file location by setting the
                            CDE_CONFIG environment variable.

In the configuration file, specify the CDP user and virtual
          cluster endpoint as follows:
user: <CDP_user>
vcluster-endpoint: <CDE_virtual_cluster_endpoint>
importantThe CLI in this release
            does not support TLS validation. You must disable TLS validation by
            adding the following lines to the CDE configuration
              file:tls-insecure: trueThe connection
              still uses HTTPS, but the TLS certificate is not
            validated.
The CDP user is your workload username.Save the configuration file.If you have not done so already, make sure that the
            cde file is executable by running chmod +x
              /path/to/cde.Run cde job list to verify your configuration.
          Enter your workload password when prompted.
noteIf the directory containing the cde file is not
            part of your PATH environment variable, you can
            either add it to your PATH environment variable or
            use the full path when running the command.You can also configure
              the CLI to use an access token so that you do not need to enter
              your password each time. For more information, see Cloudera Data Engineering CLI
                authentication.

See CDE CLI configuration options for
      other configuration options.

Cloudera Data Engineering CLI configuration optionsThe Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) CLI can be configured using a     configuration file, environment variables, or by command flags.Creating and using multiple profiles using CDE CLIYou can now add a collection of CDE CLI configurations grouped together as profiles, to     the config.yaml file. You can use these profiles while running commands.     You can set the configurations either at a profile level or at a global level.Cloudera Data Engineering CLI authenticationThe Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) CLI tool supports both interactive and transparent     authentication. For interactive authentication, if you have configured the CLI with your     workload username, you are prompted for a password. For transparent authentication, the CDE CLI     supports a password file, Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) access keys, and CDP credentials     file.Cloudera Data Engineering CLI TLS configuration