Creating new administrator accountsCloudera Docs
Creating new administrator accounts
An administrator can create new administrator accounts in Cloudera Data
    Visualization.
You must have administrative privileges to perform this
      action.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new admin account.


Click the Gear icon on the main navigation bar to open the
            Administration menu.

Click Users & Groups.




The Manage Users & Groups  interface appears, open on the
              Users tab.


Click NEW USER.




The New User modal window appears.


Fill in the new admin details:


Name & password

Username


First Name and Last Name
You can also pick these values from LDAP user definitions.


Password
importantWhen you enter your password,
                      ensure that the password meets the minimum security requirements specified for
                      Data Visualization.For more information, see Setting user
                      password requirements. 
After five failed login attempts, Data Visualization locks out the user. For
                    instructions on how to change the account lockout configuration settings or to
                    unlock the user, see Configuring account lockout. You can check the
                      Show Password option to display the password.


Permissions

Normal user and Admin user
Select Admin user.

[Optional] On the Groups tab, under Group
                    Membership, you can use the Search box to
                  find user groups, and assign the new user to existing groups by selecting user
                  groups on the left list, and then clicking Add to move them
                  to the right. For more information on how to add users to groups see,
                    Creating new user groups.
[Optional] On the Roles tab, under
                    Roles, you can use the Search box
                  to find roles, and assign the new user to existing roles by selecting roles on the
                  left list, and then clicking Add to move them to the right.
                  For more information on users and roles, see Assigning roles to
                  users.


noteIf you have not defined at least one User
              Group, the New User modal window does not contain
              Group Membership information.






After the operation succeeds, you can see the Manage Users &
          Groups page, showing the Users tab with the new admin
        user's information.


Related informationSetting user password requirementsCreating new user groups