Assigning roles to user groupsCloudera Docs
Assigning roles to user groups
You can add user groups to a role in Cloudera Data Visualization.

To assign user groups to existing roles, follow these steps:


Under the Members tab, in the Users list,
          click Edit User(s).

For information about the Require all groups option, see All Groups
              Requirement.



The Role Assignment modal window for groups appears.





There are several options for adding groups to role membership:



Search
If you have a long list of groups in the Members section,
                use the Search box to match group names, select them from the
                sub-list, and then click ADD to move them to the right side
                of the modal window. Click APPLY.




Select
In the Members section, select the groups to assign to the
                role and click ADD to move them to the right side of the
                modal window. Click APPLY.




Select All
To assign all groups to Members, select
                  All to get all group names, and then click
                  ADD to move them to the right side of the modal window.
                Click APPLY.




Adding Externally Defined Users; LDAP Authentication
For convenience, the Role Assignment interface supports
                adding into the list of assignees user goups that are not stored locally. For
                example, known groups available through LDAP authentication may be added in this
                manner.Enter the new group name and click ADD. After
                the new group name appears in the Members section, select it
                and click ADD to move the new group to the right side of the
                modal window. Click APPLY.





Remove
To move groups out of Members, select the group(s) on the
                right side panel, and then click the Left Arrow. Click
                  APPLY.




The list of groups assigned to the role appears in the Role: Administrators
              Only interface, under the Members tab.


Click SAVE. A confirmation of role update appears briefly on the
          screen.







