Creating new user accountsCloudera Docs
Creating new user accounts
The following steps demonstrate how to create a new user account.
You must have administrative privileges to perform this
      action.

Click the Gear icon on the main navigation bar to open the
            Administration menu.

Click Users & Groups.




The Manage Users & Groups  interface appears, open on the
              Users tab.


Click NEW USER.




The New User modal window appears.


Fill in the new user details:


Name & password

Username


First Name and Last Name
You can also pick these values from LDAP user definitions.


Password
importantWhen you enter your password,
                      ensure that the password meets the minimum security requirements specified for
                      Data Visualization.For more information, see Setting user
                      password requirements. 
After five failed login attempts, Data Visualization locks out the user. For
                    instructions on how to change the account lockout configuration settings or to
                    unlock the user, see Configuring account lockout. You can check the
                      Show Password option to display the password.


Permissions

Normal user and Admin user
Select Normal user.

[Optional] On the Groups tab, under Group
                    Membership, you can use the Search box to
                  find user groups, and assign the new user to existing groups by selecting user
                  groups on the left list, and then clicking Add to move them
                  to the right. For more information on how to add users to groups see,
                    Creating new user groups.
[Optional] On the Roles tab, under
                    Roles, you can use the Search box
                  to find roles, and assign the new user to existing roles by selecting roles on the
                  left list, and then clicking Add to move them to the right.
                  For more information on users and roles, see Assigning roles to
                  users.


noteIf you have not defined at least one User Group, the
              New User modal window does not contain Group
              Membership information.





Click SAVE.

After the operation succeeds, you can see the Manage Users & Groups
        page, showing the Users tab with the new user's information.When a user logs in, their first name and last name appear in the top right corner of the
        navigation bar. 

After a new user logs in, notice that the date joined changes and the last login changes from
          Never to a few seconds ago.


Related informationSetting user password requirementsConfiguring account lockoutCreating new user groupsAssigning roles to users