Assigning roles to multiple usersCloudera Docs
Assigning roles to multiple users
You can add several users to a role at the same time in Cloudera Data
    Visualization.
You must have administrative privileges to perform this
      action.

To assign users to existing roles, follow these steps:


Under the Members tab, in the Users list,
          click Edit User(s)

The Role Assignment modal window for users appears.

There are several options for adding a user to a membership:



Search
If you have a long list of users in the Members section, use
                the Search box to match user names, select them from the
                sub-list, then click ADD  to move them to the right side of
                the modal window, and finally click APPLY.





Select
In the Members section, select the users to assign to the
                role, click ADD to move them to the right side of the modal
                window, and finally click APPLY.





Select All
To assign all users to Members, select
                  All to get all user names, then click ADD
                 to move them to the right side of the modal window, and finally click
                  APPLY.





Adding Externally Defined Users; LDAP Authentication
For convenience, the Role Assignment interface supports
                adding into the list of assignees usernames that are not stored locally. For
                example, known usernames available through LDAP authentication may be added in this
                manner.Enter the new user name, and click ADD. After
                the new user name appears in the Members section, select it
                and click ADD to move the new user to the right side of the
                modal window. Click APPLY. 





Remove
To move users out of Members, select the user(s) on the
                right side panel, then click the Left Arrow, and finally
                click APPLY.





The list of users assigned to the role appears in the Role: Test Role
              1 interface, under the Members tab.


Click SAVE. A confirmation of role update appears briefly on the
          screen.







Parent topic: Assigning roles to users