Publishing a draft as a new flow definitionCloudera Docs
Publishing a draft as a new flow definition
When you publish a new draft for the first time, or you have opened an existing flow
        definition from the Catalog as a draft, you can publish your updates as a new flow
        definition.


Make sure that you have DFDeveloper permission to perform this task. For
                    information on account and resource roles, see DataFlow
                    Authorization.
Make sure you have DFCatalogAdmin permission to perform this task. For
                    information on account and resource roles, see DataFlow
                    Authorization.
You have created a draft from an existing flow definition in CDF Flow
                    Designer.



When you publish your draft as a new flow definition, you have two options:
                    publishing from the Flow Design Canvas view, and
                    publishing from the All Workspace Drafts view.

CanvasWorkspace

In the Flow Design Canvas view, click Flow Options > Publish To Catalog.
Depending on your use case, select one of the following:
Select  Publish As if you have updated an exisiting flow
                                            definition and want to publish your work as a new
                                            flow.
Select  Publish if you want to publish a new draft for
                                            the first time. (In this case, the  Publish As
                                            option is inactive)




In the All Workspace Drafts view, click
                                             on the right of the
                                    row representing the draft you want to publish.
Depending on your use case, select one of the following:
Select  Publish As if you have updated an exisiting flow
                                            definition and want to publish your work as a new
                                            flow.
Select  Publish if you want to publish a new draft for
                                            the first time. (In this case, the  Publish As
                                            option is inactive)





Fill in the fields in the Publish A New Flow box.


Provide a Flow Name for your flow
                                definition.You can only provide a name when you publish your flow
                                for the first time.
Optionally provide a Flow Description.You can
                                only provide a description when you publish your flow for the first
                                time.
Optionally provide Version Comments.



Click Publish.

Your draft is published to the
                Catalog as a new flow definition.

