Adding a CDH cluster (CCMv2)Cloudera Docs
Adding a CDH cluster (CCMv2)
You must register CDH clusters in CDP before you can use them with CDP Public Cloud
    services and components. 
About this task
To ensure optimal security, clusters within the customer environment are not
      accessible for communication; They have private IP addresses and cannot be accessed outside
      the firewall. To add your cluster to the CDP, a communication line needs to be established. 
The CCM inverted proxy solves the problem by establishing a connection from the
      on-premise cluster to CDP. You must download and install the jumpgate agent and the
      connectivity install scripts to establish a secure two-way communication channel. The jumpgate
      agent ensures that the connectivity is stable. The connectivity scripts and their installation
      ensure safe connectivity and communication.
The high-level steps to register a CDH cluster using CCM are as follows:


In the CDP Management Console, you enter the private IP address of your cluster
          and provide the cluster details.


You download the jumpgate agent rpm from the specified location and the
          connectivity installation scripts from CDP on to the cluster.


You install jumpgate agent on the cluster.


You register the cluster for performing further operations.


Detailed steps are provided below.
Before you begin


CDH clusters must have been created using Cloudera Manager. Clusters that are
          not managed by Cloudera Manager cannot be registered to CDP. 


All clusters must meet the requirements identified in Prerequisites for adding classic
          clusters.



cautionAfter you register a CDH cluster in CDP, do not change the cluster name in Cloudera
        Manager. A cluster name change in Cloudera Manager does not currently propagate to CDP,
        which can result in issues when using the CDH cluster with CDP clusters and components.
      


cautionThe jumpgate agent and connectivity-install scripts files must be stored in a secure
        location.

Steps
Perform the following steps to add a CDH cluster:


Log in to CDP and navigate to the Management Console. 


Click Classic Clusters in the left navigation panel. 


Click Add Cluster. 
CDP displays the Cluster Details dialog box.


Click CDH. 


Provide the connectivity information for your new cluster:noteMake sure that
            the Data Center name is different from the Data Center names that have already been
            registered. If the Data Center name exists, make sure that the combination of the Data
            Center name and the cluster name is unique. Else, you may get an error when you try to
            add a cluster with an existing Data Center-cluster name combination. 


Cloudera Manger IP address


Cloudera Manager Port


Data center


Select the My cluster runs on HTTPS option if the CDH cluster uses
                HTTPS.

Step 1 might take up to five minutes if you are adding the cluster for the first
          time. After Step 1 is complete, CDP will highlight Step 2.

Start the download and installation process for the connectivity files by
        clicking the Files button in the Step 2 pane.
Follow the instructions in the Setup Connectivity Client dialog box. You need to
        download the jumpgate-agent rpm file and the
          cluster_connectivity_setup_files zip file onto Cloudera Manager host in
        your new cluster:

Download the jumpgate-agent RPM and
                cluster_connectivity_setup_files.


In the command line interface, copy the two files to the Cloudera Manager
              host.


SSH to the Cloudera Manager host.


Install the jumpgate-agent rpm
              using:yum --nogpgcheck localinstall < 
downloaded-jumpgate-agent-rpm >

Unzip the cluster_connectivity_setup_files file. Inside this zip file
            there is a script install.sh.
Run install.sh by using ./install.sh command.
Check service status to see if the agent has been connected:
            systemctl status jumpgate-agent.service 
On the Classic Clusters page, click Test Connection in the Step 2 pane
          to verify whether the connection is successful.After CDP successfully connects to
          your new cluster, it will highlight Step 2. the connectivity with the cluster. When
          the connectivity is successful, proceed to Step 3 in the UI.If the
          connection attempts fail or if there is an error in the connectivity, CDP displays
          troubleshooting information in the Step 2 pane. Follow the troubleshooting
          information to fix the connectivity error, then click Test
          connection.noteAfter you download the files, the cluster_connectivity_setup file
          download is disabled. At this point, you can regenerate the cluster connectivity setup
          files using the regenerate files option. This option comes in handy if you lose the files
          previously downloaded before you can set the cluster connectivity in the cluster.

Click Register in the Step 3 pane.
Provide the username and password of the Cloudera Manager user to access the cluster.
Finishing registering the cluster by providing the following information:

Cluster Location


Data Center


Tags (optional)


Description (optional)


Click Submit.

Result
Once the cluster has been registered, you can use it with CDP.

Parent topic: Adding classic clusters with CCMv2