Adding an HDP cluster (CCMv2)Cloudera Docs
Adding an HDP cluster (CCMv2)
You must register HDP clusters with CDP before you can use them with CDP Public Cloud
    services and components. 
About this task
To ensure optimum security, clusters within the customer environment are not
      accessible for communication: They have private IP addresses and cannot be accessed outside
      the firewall. To add your cluster to CDP, a communication line needs to be established. 
The CCM inverted proxy solves the problem by establishing a connection from the
      on-premise cluster to CDP. You must download and install the jumpgate agent and the
      connectivity install scripts to establish a secure two-way communication channel. The jumpgate
      agent ensures that the connectivity is stable. The connectivity scripts and their installation
      ensure safe connectivity and communication. 
Before you begin


HDP clusters must be managed by Ambari. HDP clusters that are not managed by
          Ambari cannot be registered to CDP. 
HDP clusters must include Knox.
HDP clusters must include Ranger policy settings
LDAP/AD must be set up and synced in Ambari.LDAP settings are automatically
            detected from the default topology setup in Knox. If the default topology does not have
            the LDAP setup, you will be asked to provide another topology name where you have
            configured the LDAP. If that topology has LDAP, the setup continues. If the LDAP is not
            configured, you will receive an error message.
Kerberos must be enabled on the HDP cluster and the LDAP/AD must be set up in
          the Kerberos authentication so that the same set of LDAP/AD credentials can be used to
          access Ambari APIs as well as Beacon APIs.
All clusters must meet the requirements identified in Prerequisites for adding classic
          clusters.



cautionAfter you register an HDP cluster in CDP, do not change the cluster name
        in Ambari. A cluster name change in Ambari does not currently propagate to CDP, which can
        result in issues when using the HDP cluster with CDP clusters and components. 
cautionThe jumphost and connectivity-install scripts files must be stored in a secure
        environment

Steps
The process to register an HDP cluster is as follows:


Log in to CDP and navigate to the Management Console. 


Click Classic Clusters in the left navigation panel. 


Click Add Cluster. 
CDP displays the Cluster Details dialog box.


If you are a first time user, under Step 1 in the Register Classic
            Cluster wizard, click GET STARTED. If you are not a first time user, click
          the ADD CLUSTER button on the right side of the listing page.
CDP displays the Cluster Details dialog box.

Select HDP. 
Provide the following connectivity information for your new cluster:

Knox IP Address


Knox port


Data center


Click CONNECT

Step 1 might take up to 5 minutes if you are adding the cluster for the first time.
          After Classic Cluster establishes connection, CDP will highlight Step 2 in the
            Register Classic Cluster wizard.
Start the download and installation process for the connectivity files by clicking the
          Files button in Step 2 of the wizard.
Follow the instructions in the Setup Connectivity Client dialog box. You need to
        download the jumpgate-agent rpm file and the
          cluster_connectivity_setup_files zip files and copy them to your Knox
        node. Or if your Knox is running in HA mode, you need to copy the files to the Knox proxy
        host in the cluster:

Download the jumpgate-agent RPM and
                cluster_connectivity_setup_files.zip.


In the command line interface, copy the two files to the Knox or Knox proxy
              host.


SSH to the host. 


Install the jumpgate-agent rpm using: 

yum --nogpgcheck localinstall < downloaded-jumpgate-agent-rpm >




Unzip the cluster_connectivity_setup_files file. Inside
              this zip file there is a script install.sh.


Run install.sh by using ./install.sh
              command.


Check service status to see if the agent has been connected:
              systemctl status jumpgate-agent.service 


Enter the following information as the install script prompts for it:

Enter Ambari URL (http(s)://host:[port]):


Enter Ambari Username:


Enter Ambari Password:


If Knox is not installed on a proxy server, proceed to Step 12. Classic Cluster
        sets up the topology for the Knox server and establishes the connection.
If Knox is installed on a proxy server, Classic Cluster displays the following
          message:We discovered that your Knox is installed in HA mode. Please confirm if this
          node is your proxy node (yes/no):Enter yes.Classic Cluster generates XML
        content that you will need to add to your Knox hosts. Classic Cluster also displays three
        steps you must perform on all of your Knox hosts:

Copy the generated XML to
                /usr/hdp/current/knox-server/conf/topologies/cdp_default.xml


Run chown knox:knox cdp_default.xml


Check the Knox logs/deployment directory to verify that the cdp_default
              topology is deployed.


After you have completed steps a through c on all of your Knox hosts, type
                Enter to continue.This sets up the topology for the Knox server or Knox proxy
              host and establishes the connection.


On the Classic Clusters page, click Test Connection in the Step 2 pane to
        verify whether the connection is successful.
CDP starts checking the connectivity with the HDP cluster. When the connectivity is
        successful, proceed to Step 3 in the wizard.If the connection attempts fail or if
          there is an error in the connectivity,CDP displays troubleshooting information in Step
            2 of the registration wizard. Follow the troubleshooting information to fix the
          connectivity error, then click Test connection.noteAfter you download the files,
            the cluster_connectivity_setup files download is disabled. At this point, you can
            regenerate the cluster connectivity setup files using the regenerate files option. This
            option comes in handy if you lose the files previously downloaded before you can set the
            cluster connectivity in the cluster.
Click Register in Step 3 of the registration wizard.
In the Cluster Details dialog box, provide the username and password to access the
        cluster, then click CONNECT.The user should have admin access to the cluster
          services.
Finish registering the cluster by providing the following information.

Cluster Location


Data Center


Tags (optional)


Description (optional)

If LDAP is not set up on the default topology, the system will ask for the following
        additional information: Enter knox topology name that contains LDAP setup.
Click ADD.

Result
Once the cluster has been registered, you can use it with CDP.

Parent topic: Adding classic clusters with CCMv2