Adding a CDH cluster (CCMv1)Cloudera Docs
Adding a CDH cluster (CCMv1)
You must register clusters with CDP before you can use those clusters with CDP services
    and components. You can register CDH clusters that can be reached only through private IP
    address using a reverseSSH tunnel. 
About this task
warningCCMv1 has been replaced with CCMv2. If you started registering your
      on-premise cluster with CCMv1, we recommend that you delete it and start a new registration
      process with CCMv2, as described in Delete an unregistered classic cluster and Adding classic clusters with CCMv2.
To ensure optimum security, clusters within the customer environment are not accessible for
      communication. They have private IP addresses and cannot be accessed outside the firewall.
      However, to add your cluster to the CDP, a communication line needs to be established. 
A reverseSSH tunnel solves the problem by establishing a tunnel from the cluster to CDP. You
      must download and install AutoSSH and the connectivity install scripts to establish a secure
      two-way communication channel. The AutoSSH ensures that the connectivity is stable. The
      connectivity scripts and their installation ensure safe connectivity and communication. 
The high-level steps to register a CDH cluster using a reverseSSH tunnel are as follows:

On the CDP Management Console, you enter the private IP address of your cluster and
        provide the cluster details.
You download the AutoSSH rpm from the specified location and the connectivity installation
        scripts from CDP on to the cluster.
You install AutoSSH on the cluster.
You register the cluster for performing further operations.

More detailed steps are provided below.
Before you begin
important After you register a CDH cluster in CDP, do not change the cluster name
      in Cloudera Manager. A cluster name change in Cloudera Manager does not currently propagate to
      CDP, which can result in issues when using clusters with CDP clusters and components. 

CDH clusters must have been created using Cloudera Manager. Clusters that are not
        managed by Cloudera Manager cannot be registered to CDP. 
All clusters must meet the requirements identified in Prerequisites for adding classic clusters.


noteThe AutoSSH and connectivity install scripts files must be stored in a secure
        environment. 

Steps
Perform the following steps to add a CDH cluster that is not reachable via public IP
        address.

 Log in to CDP and navigate to the Management Console. 
 Click Classic Clusters in the left navigation panel. 
 Click Add Cluster. Classic Cluster displays the Cluster
              Details dialog box.
 Click CDH. 
 If your cluster is not reachable by a public network, click My cluster is accessible
            only in my private network. note Make sure that the Data Center name is different
            from the Data Center names that have already been registered. If the Data Center name
            exists, make sure that the combination of the Data Center name and the cluster name is
            unique. Else, it might result in an error when you try to add a cluster with an existing
            Data Center-cluster name combination. 
 Provide the connectivity information for your new cluster, then click
            CONNECT.
note Connecting to the new cluster might take more than twenty minutes if you are
              adding the cluster for the first time. 
After Classic Cluster successfully connects to your new cluster, it will highlight
              Step 2.
 Start the download and installation process for the SSH connectivity files by clicking
          the Files button in the Step 2 pane.
Follow the instructions in the Setup Connectivity Client dialog
        box. You need to download the ccm-autosssh-client rpm file, and the
          ssh_tunnel_setup_files or
          cluster_connectivity_setup_files zip file onto Cloudera Manager host in
        your new cluster and then:
Install the AutoSSH rpm (the ccm-autosssh-client file). If the
              installation of CCM autossh-client rpm fails with “No package autossh available”,
              refer to Troubleshooting: Install autossh
            package.
Unzip the ssh_tunnel_setup_files or
              cluster_connectivity_setup_files file. Inside this zip file there is
            a script install.sh
Run install.sh by using ./install.sh command 
Five minutes after you download the ssh files, Classic Cluster starts checking the
          connectivity with the cluster. When the connectivity is successful, proceed to
            Step 3 in the UI.If the connection attempts fail or if
          there is an error in the connectivity, Classic Cluster displays troubleshooting
          information in the Step 2 pane. Follow the troubleshooing
          information to fix the connectivity error, then click Test
            connection.
noteAfter you download the files, the ssh files download is disabled. At this point, you
            can regenerate the ssh files using the regenerate files option. This option comes in
            handy if you lose the files previously downloaded before you can set the cluster
            connectivity in the cluster. 

Click Register in the Step 3 pane.
Provide the username and password of the Cloudera Manager user to access the
          cluster.
Finishing registering the cluster by providing the following information.
Cluster Location
Data Center
Tags (optional)
Description (optional)

 Click Submit. 


Parent topic: Adding classic clusters with CCMv1