Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager (CCMv1)Cloudera Docs
Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager (CCMv1)
After you register the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster using
        Cloudera Manager, you can use the classic cluster as a source cluster in Replication
        Manager.

warningCCMv1 has been replaced with CCMv2. If you started registering your
                on-premise cluster with CCMv1, we recommend that you delete it and start a new
                registration process with CCMv2, as described in Delete an unregistered classic cluster and
                    Adding classic clusters with CCMv2.


Log in to CDP Management Console.

Click Classic Clusters.

On the Classic Clusters page, click ADD
                        CLUSTER.

In the Add Cluster dialog box, go to the CDP
                        Private Cloud Base tab to enter the following details:


IP address - Enter the IP address of the
                            Cloudera Manager of the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. The Management
                            Console uses this IP address to identify the cluster for registration
                            purposes. 


Port - Enter the port of the Cloudera Manager of
                            the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.


Data center - Enter a unique datacenter name for
                            the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. 


Select the My cluster runs on HTTPS option if
                            the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster uses HTTPS.


Clear the Register KNOX endpoint (Optional)
                            option, if selected.


Click CONNECT.



The Management Console acquires the configuration details from Cluster
                        Connectivity Manager (CCM) service.


On the Classic Clusters page, click
                        Files in the Step 2 pane. 

In the Setup Connectivity Client dialog box, click
                        ccm-autossh-client, and
                        ssh_tunnel_setup_files or
                        cluster_connectivity_setup_files links to download the RPM for
                    AutoSSH from the specified location and the connectivity-installation scripts
                    from CDP, to your machine.

In the Setup Connectivity Client dialog box, click
                        Close.

In the command line interface, copy the RPM and ZIP files to the host where
                    Cloudera Manager is running.

To establish an reverseSSH tunnel between the Cloudera Manager of CDP Private
                    Cloud Base cluster and Management Console, perform the following steps:


SSH to the Cloudera Manager host.


Run the following command to install AutoSSH using the
                                ccm-autossh-client rpm file:

yum --nogpgcheck localinstall [***downloaded ccm_autossh-client-rpm***]


If the installation of CCM autossh-client rpm fails with “No package
                                autossh available”, refer to Troubleshooting: Install autossh
                                    package.



Extract the ssh_tunnel_setup_files.zip or
                                cluster_connectivity_setup_files.zip file to a
                            directory.


Run the install script in the directory using the
                                ./install.sh command.


Optionally, you can check the CCM service status using
                                ccm-tunnel status command to verify whether the
                            SSH tunnel is established. 



noteIf you regenerate the script files, you cannot use
                        the previously downloaded ssh_tunnel_setup_files.zip or
                            cluster_connectivity_setup_files.zip file because the
                        file is no longer valid.


On the Classic Clusters page, click Test
                        Connection in the Step 2 pane to verify whether the tunnel
                    connection is successful.

Click Register in the Step 3 pane.

In the Cluster Details dialog box, enter the Cloudera
                    Manager credentials that has Admin access to Cloudera
                    Manager and the cluster services.

Click CONNECT.

To complete the registration, enter the following details on the
                        Classic Clusters page:


Cluster Location - Enter the geographical
                            location of the Data Lake.


Data Center - Ensure that the data center name
                            is the name that you provided for CDP Private Cloud Base cluster during
                            registration.


Tags - Optionally, enter the tags for the
                            cluster.


Description - Optionally, enter a
                            description.



Click Add.

You can use the registered classic cluster in Replication
            Manager.

Parent topic: Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster (CCMv1)