Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster (CCMv1)Cloudera Docs
Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster (CCMv1)
You must add a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster with CDP to register it before you can
        use those clusters with CDP services and components. You can register CDP Private Cloud Base
        clusters that can be reached only through a private IP address using a reverseSSH
        tunnel.
warningCCMv1 has been replaced with CCMv2. If you started registering your
            on-premise cluster with CCMv1, we recommend that you delete it and start a new
            registration process with CCMv2, as described in Delete an unregistered classic cluster and
                Adding classic clusters with CCMv2.
To ensure optimum security, clusters within the customer environment are not
            accessible for communication. They have private IP addresses and cannot be accessed
            outside the firewall. However, to add your cluster to CDP, a communication line needs to
            be established. A reverseSSH tunnel solves the problem by establishing a tunnel from the
            cluster to CDP. You must download and install AutoSSH and the connectivity-install
            scripts to establish a secure two-way communication channel. The AutoSSH ensures that
            the connectivity is stable. The connectivity scripts and their installation ensure safe
            connectivity and communication.
noteThe AutoSSH and connectivity-install scripts files must be
            stored in a secure environment.
To register the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster, you enter
            the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster details. The Management Console acquires the
            configuration details from Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM) service and saves it as
            ZIP files. You download the ZIP files, install the acquired configurations, and then
            register the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster.
noteAfter you register a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster in CDP, do
            not change the cluster name in Cloudera Manager. A cluster name change in Cloudera
            Manager does not currently propagate to CDP, which can result in issues when using
            clusters with CDP clusters and components. 
All the clusters must meet the requirements identified in  Prerequisites for adding classic clusters.
You have two options for registering your CDP Private Cloud Base cluster:
If you would like to use the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster with Replication
                    Manager, register the cluster using Cloudera Manager.
If you would like to use the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster with Replication
                    Manager and Data Catalog, register the cluster using Cloudera Manager and
                    Knox.

importantCDP Private Cloud Base clusters can be used in Data Catalog by
            registering them using Cloudera Manager and Knox endpoints. Note that this is a
            technical preview feature and is under development. Do not use this in your production
            environment. If you have feedback, contact Support by logging a case on the Cloudera
            Support Portal at https://my.cloudera.com/support.html. Technical preview
            features are not guaranteed troubleshooting and fixes.
For registration steps, see the following documentation:

Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager (CCMv1)After you register the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster using         Cloudera Manager, you can use the classic cluster as a source cluster in Replication         Manager.Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager and Data Catalog (CCMv1)After you register the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster using         Cloudera Manager and Knox endpoints, you can use the classic cluster in Replication Manager         and Data Catalog.Parent topic: Adding classic clusters with CCMv1