Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster (CCMv2)Cloudera Docs
Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster (CCMv2)
You must register CDP Private Cloud Base clusters with CDP before you can use them
        with CDP Public Cloud services and components.
To ensure optimum security, clusters within the customer environment are not
            accessible for communication: They have private IP addresses and cannot be accessed
            outside the firewall. To add your cluster to the CDP, a communication line needs to be
            established. 
The CCM inverted proxy solves the problem by establishing a connection from the
            on-premise cluster to CDP. You must download and install the jumpgate agent and the
            connectivity install scripts to establish a secure two-way communication channel. The
            jumpgate agent ensures that the connectivity is stable. The connectivity scripts and
            their installation ensure safe connectivity and communication. 
Note: The jumphost and connectivity-install scripts files must be stored
            in a secure environment.
To register the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster, you enter
            the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster details. The Management Console acquires the
            configuration details from Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM) service and saves it as
            ZIP files. You download the ZIP files, install the acquired configurations, and then
            register the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster.
Note: After you register a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster in CDP, do not
            change the cluster name in Cloudera Manager. A cluster name change in Cloudera Manager
            does not currently propagate to CDP, which can result in issues when using clusters with
            CDP clusters and components. 
All the clusters must meet the requirements identified in Prerequisites for adding classic
                clusters.
You have two options for registering your CDP Private Cloud Base cluster:


If you would like to use the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster with
                    Replication Manager, register the cluster using Cloudera Manager.


If you would like to use the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster with
                    Replication Manager and Data Catalog, register the cluster using Cloudera
                    Manager and Knox.



importantCDP Private Cloud Base clusters can be used in Data Catalog by
                registering them using Cloudera Manager and Knox endpoints. Note that this is a
                technical preview feature and is under development. Do not use this in your
                production environment. If you have feedback, contact Support by logging a case on
                the Cloudera Support Portal at https://my.cloudera.com/support.html.
                Technical preview features are not guaranteed troubleshooting and fixes

For CDP Private Cloud Base cluster registration steps in CDP, see the following
            documentation:

Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager (CCMv2)Register a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster using Cloudera Manager         so that you can use this cluster as a source cluster in Replication Manager.Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager and Data Catalog (CCMv2)Parent topic: Adding classic clusters with CCMv2