Prerequisites for adding classic clustersCloudera Docs
Prerequisites for adding classic clusters
Make sure you verify the version requirements of your classic clusters and install or
    configure all of the classic cluster requirements before you try to add or register them to
    CDP.
Required roles
You need to have the ClassicClustersCreator role to register a classic cluster in
        CDP.

Check the version compatibility
Make sure that the following version requirements are met.

For adding HDP clusters: 
HDP - HDP 2.6.5.50000 plus any required patch version
DLM Engine version - 1.7.0.0-x
Ambari - 2.7.3 or 2.6.2.2 or 2.6.2

For adding CDH clusters: 
CDH - 5.x and 6.x
Cloudera Manager - 5.x and 6.x

For adding CDP Private Cloud Base clusters
CDP Private Cloud Base cluster 7.1.1 or later, and its respective Cloudera
              Manager version; For example, CDP Private Cloud Base cluster 7.1.6 uses Cloudera
              Manager 7.3.1.



noteCurrently, classic cluster registration only supports CentOS and RHEL operating
          systems, versions 6 and 7.


Verify the required roles are assigned


Make sure that the user can log in as the admin user to Ambari in the HDP
            cluster.

Make sure the user can log in as the admin user to Cloudera Manager in the CDH
          cluster or the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.


Install the required components (HDP only)
Fulfill the following requirements if using HDP. If using CDH or CDP Private
        Cloud Base, skip this section.

Make sure that Ambari Metrics is installed in Ambari in the HDP clusters.
Make sure that Ambari is configured with LDAP.
Make sure that Knox is installed and the default topology is configured with
            LDAP.noteKnox does not need to be used by other services in the cluster; It is only
            required for CDP communication.
Make sure that there is at least one topology in the Knox setup with the same
          LDAP as Ambari.
If there are policies restricting access through Knox, make sure that Ranger
          policies allow communication through Knox.
Make sure that the cluster is configured with Kerberos.
Make sure that the user credential used for registering the classic cluster is
          a valid LDAP user with an admin role in Ambari.


Open ports for CCM
If you would like to use Cluster Connectivity Manager v2 (CCMv2), ensure that
        outgoing traffic is allowed on the port range 6000-6049 (CCMv1) or port range 443 (CCMv2) on
        the legacy CDH, HDP, or CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. 
After making sure that your clusters meet all the requirements, you can add your
        CDH, HDP, and CDP Private Cloud Base clusters to CDP.


Related informationCluster Connectivity Manager (CCM)Using classic clusters with a non-transparent proxy (CCMv2)Using classic clusters with a non-transparent proxy (CCMv1)