Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager and Data Catalog (CCMv2)Cloudera Docs
Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager and Data Catalog
        (CCMv2)

Register a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster using Cloudera Manager and
            Knox endpoints so that you can use this cluster in Replication Manager and Data
            Catalog.
Before you begin
All the clusters must meet the requirements identified in Prerequisites for adding classic
                clusters.
Additionally, ensure that the following components and roles are available:


The CDP Private Cloud Base cluster has an active Knox service.


You can proxy to Cloudera Manager through Knox for communication
                    purposes. 


LDAP is configured in the Cloudera Manager of CDP Private Cloud Base
                    cluster. For more information, see Configure authentication using an
                        LDAP-compliant identity service.


A minimum of one LDAP user with the Full Administrator role.


An LDAP-based topology cdp_defaul.xml with CM-API, CM-UI, ATLAS,
                    ATLAS-API, RANGERUI, and RANGER services exists. The topology name is used
                    during the classic cluster registration process. 


noteIf there are policies that restrict access through Knox, then add the topology name to
            the cdp_default Ranger policy so that the Ranger policies can
            communicate through Knox.
importantCDP Private Cloud Base clusters can be used in Data Catalog by
            registering them using Cloudera Manager and Knox endpoints. Note that this is a
            technical preview feature and is under development. Do not use this in your production
            environment. If you have feedback, contact Support by logging a case on the Cloudera
            Support Portal at https://my.cloudera.com/support.html. Technical preview
            features are not guaranteed troubleshooting and fixes.
Steps



Log in to CDP Management Console.


Click Classic Clusters.


On the Classic Clusters page, click ADD CLUSTER.


In the Add Cluster dialog box, navigate to the CDP Private Cloud
                            Base tab and enter the following details: 

If your cluster is not reachable by a public network,
                                    click “My cluster is accessible only in my private network”.
                                    


Cloudera Manager IP address - Enter the IP
                                    address of the Cloudera Manager of the CDP Private Cloud Base
                                    cluster. The Management Console uses this IP address to identify
                                    the cluster for registration purposes. 


Cloudera Manager Port - Enter the port of the
                                    Cloudera Manager of the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.


Data center - Enter a unique datacenter name for
                                    the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. 


Select the My cluster runs on HTTPS
                                    option if the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster uses HTTPS.


Select the Register KNOX endpoint (Optional)
                                    option.


KNOX IP Address - Enter the IP address of the
                                    Knox host for the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.


KNOX Port - Enter the port for the Knox
                                    service.


Click CONNECT.

The Management Console acquires the configuration details from Cluster
                        Connectivity Manager (CCM) service. After CDP successfully connects to your
                        new cluster (which should take no more than 5 minutes), it will highlight
                        Step 2.


On the Classic Clusters page, click Files in the
                            Step 2 pane. 


Follow the instructions in the Setup Connectivity Client
                        dialog box. You need to download the jumpgate-agent rpm
                        file and the cluster_connectivity_setup_files zip file onto
                        Cloudera Manager host in your new cluster:

In the command line interface, copy the RPM and ZIP
                                    files to the Cloudera Manager host.


SSH to the Cloudera Manager host.


Install the jumpgate-agent rpm using
                                        yum --nogpgcheck localinstall <
                                        downloaded-jumpgate-agent-rpm >


Unzip the
                                        cluster_connectivity_setup_files file.
                                    Inside this zip file there is a script
                                        install.sh.


Run install.sh by using ./install.sh
                                    command.


Check service status to see if the agent has been
                                    connected: systemctl status
                                        jumpgate-agent.service



noteIf you regenerate the script files, you cannot use the previously
                        downloaded cluster_connectivity_setup_files.zip file
                        because the file is no longer valid.

On the Classic Clusters page, click Test Connection in the Step
                        2 pane to verify whether the connection is successful.
On the Classic Clusters page, click Register in the Step 3
                    pane.
In the Cluster Details dialog box, enter the Cloudera Manager credentials
                    that have Admin access to Cloudera Manager and the cluster services.
Click CONNECT.
To complete the registration, enter the following details on the Classic
                        Clusters page:

Cluster Location - Enter the geographical location
                                of the Data Lake.


Data Center - Ensure that the data center name is
                                the name that you provided for CDP Private Cloud Base cluster during
                                registration.


Tags - Optionally, enter the tags for the cluster,
                                if any.


Description - Optionally, enter a description.


Click Add.


Result
You can use the registered classic cluster in Replication Manager and Data
            Catalog.

Parent topic: Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster (CCMv2)