Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager (CCMv2)Cloudera Docs
Adding CDP Private Cloud Base cluster for use in Replication Manager (CCMv2)
Register a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster as a classic cluster using Cloudera Manager
        so that you can use this cluster as a source cluster in Replication Manager.
Before you begin
All the clusters must meet the requirements identified in Prerequisites for adding classic
                clusters.
Steps



Log in to CDP Management Console.


Click Classic Clusters.


On the Classic Clusters page, click ADD CLUSTER.


In the Add Cluster dialog box, navigate to the CDP
                            Private Cloud Base tab and enter the following details: 


If your cluster is not reachable by a public network, click
                                    “My cluster is accessible only in my private network”.
                                


Cloudera Manager IP address - Enter the IP address
                                of the Cloudera Manager of the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. The
                                Management Console uses this IP address to identify the cluster for
                                registration purposes. 


Cloudera Manager Port - Enter the port of the
                                Cloudera Manager of the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.


Data center - Enter a unique data center name for
                                the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. 


Select the My cluster runs on HTTPS option if the
                                CDP Private Cloud Base cluster uses HTTPS.


Clear the Register KNOX endpoint (Optional) option,
                                if selected.


Click CONNECT.


The Management Console acquires the configuration details from
                        Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM) service. After CDP successfully connects
                        to your new cluster (which should take no more than 5 minutes), it will
                        highlight Step 2.

On the Classic Clusters page, click Files in the Step 2
                    pane. 
Follow the instructions in the Setup Connectivity Client dialog box. You
                    need to download the jumpgate-agent rpm file and the
                        cluster_connectivity_setup_files zip file onto Cloudera
                    Manager host in your new cluster:

In the command line interface, copy the
                                    jumpgate-agent RPM and
                                    cluster_connectivity_setup_files.zip to the
                                Cloudera Manager host.


SSH to the Cloudera Manager host.


Install the jumpgate-agent rpm
                                using:yum --nogpgcheck localinstall < 
downloaded-jumpgate-agent-rpm >



Unzip the cluster_connectivity_setup_files
                                file. Inside this zip file there is a script
                                    install.sh.


Run install.sh by using
                                    ./install.sh command.


Check service status to see if the agent has been
                                connected:
                                systemctl status jumpgate-agent.service

noteIf you regenerate the script files, you cannot use the previously
                        downloaded cluster_connectivity_setup_files.zip file
                        because the file is no longer valid.
On the Classic Clusters page, click Test Connection in the Step
                        2 pane to verify whether the connection is successful.
Click Register in the Step 3 pane.
In the Cluster Details dialog box, enter the Cloudera Manager credentials
                    that have Admin access to Cloudera Manager and the cluster services.
Click CONNECT.
To complete the registration, enter the following details on the Classic
                        Clusters page:

Cluster Location - Enter the geographical location
                                of the Data Lake.


Data Center - Ensure that the data center name is
                                the name that you provided for CDP Private Cloud Base cluster during
                                registration.


Tags - Optionally, enter the tags for the
                                cluster.


Description - Optionally, enter a description.


Click Add.


Result
You can use the registered classic cluster in the Replication Manager.

Parent topic: Adding a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster (CCMv2)