Troubleshooting classic cluster registration errors (CCMv2)Cloudera Docs
Troubleshooting classic cluster registration errors (CCMv2)
While trying to resume the registration process, you can identify the problem behind the
  error and fix it.
Issues during registration in CDP


Error or issue details
Resolution



Alert: Registration is pending for a cluster with the same details.



A cluster with the same IP Address and Data Center cannot be registered
           again.


Check if you have registered this cluster already. To check this, navigate to
           the Classic Clusters page and search for your cluster.


Check if the IP address is correct.


Provide a different Data Center name.






Cluster side issues


Error or issue details
Resolution



Connection refused even though the systemctl status jumpgate-agent.service shows that
        the jumpgate agent is running.
Make sure that you copied the right setup files for the cluster or check if the port
        number CCM_TUNNEL_SERVICE_PORT in
         cluster_connectivity.conf is your Cloudera Manager's port number in case
        of CDH/CDP Private Cloud Base cluster and Knox port number in case of HDP cluster.


Test connection failure

Try the following:


Check if the jumpgate agent is running:
systemctl status jumpgate-agent.service


If the jumpgate agent is not running, start the agent by running the install
           script.


If the agent is active, check if the port number entered during registration
           is correct.


If the port number is incorrect, delete the registration attempt from the UI,
           remove all the setup-related files from the cluster node and re-register the cluster with
           the correct information.


If the port number is correct, check if outbound connection to the CDP
           Control Plane is allowed.
cat cluster_connectivity.conf and collect the
              RELAY_SERVER
Check if the RELAY_SERVER is reachable from the node:
On the node, execute the command nslookup <RELAY_SERVER> to
               check if the RELAY_SERVER is reachable from the node. Or execute curl command as mentioned here for connectivity check: curl
                 https://<RELAY_SEVRER>:443
Or execute telnet command as mentioned here: telnet <RELAY_SERVER>
                443
If this fails, then the traffic to the cloudera network is blocked on the
               customer’s VPC. 
You should check the outbound rules on your VPC to make sure that the traffic to
               the Cloudera network is allowed. If the agent is active, check if there are any
               Ranger policies set up to deny access to the cluster. If such policies exist on the
               cluster, modify or set up policies to allow access to the cluster cdp_default
                topology



If the agent is active, check if there are any Ranger policies set up to deny access to
          the cluster. If such policies exist on the cluster, modify or set up policies to allow
          access to the cluster cdp_default topology
If the tunnel is active, check if the port number entered during registration is
          correct.
If the port number is incorrect, delete the registration attempt from the UI, remove
          all the setup-related file from the cluster node and re-register the cluster with the
          correct information.
If the port number is correct, check if outbound connection to CDP control plane
           (host/port = CCM_HOST/CCM_SSH_PORT) is allowed on the directory which
          has the ssh setup files.
cat reverse_tunnel.conf or cat
             cluster_connectivity.conf and collect the following properties -
             CCM_HOST, CCM_SSH_PORT, CCM_TUNNEL_INITIATOR_ID
Check if the NLB is reachable from the node:
On the node, execute the command nslookup <CCM_HOST> to check
              if the NLB is reachable from the node.
If this fails, then the traffic to the cloudera network is blocked on the
              customer’s VPC. 
The customer should check the outbound rules on their VPC to make sure that the
              traffic to the cloudera network is allowed. 







CCM issues
Classic Clusters registration uses CCM, enabled by the installation of the CCM client and
    secrets on the CM node. 



Error or issue details
Resolution




“Unable to identify a backendId for this request. This usually happens if either the
          backendId is invalid or the agent has not yet connected to the relay server” 
OR
“No route found for backend with id <backend-id>. This usually happens if
          either the backendId is invalid or the agent has not yet connected to the relay
          server."

The CCMv2 Network Load Balancers (NLBs) might be unreachable. To verify, execute
          cat cluster_connectivity.conf and collect the
          RELAY_SERVER field’s value and make sure that the RELEY_SERVER on port
         443 is reachable from the legacy CDH/HDP master nodes.




Other issues



Error or issue details
Resolution



If Cluster name and Display name are different, few details are missing
         from the cluster detail page.
Cluster name and Display name must be the same.





If registering your cluster for use with Data Catalog, also check the following: 


Check Proxy to Cloudera Manager through Apache Knox is enabled. 


Make sure that you created the cdp_default topology on the Knox
        host with required services and LDAP configuration; it's a prerequisite. 








Parent topic: Adding classic clusters with CCMv2