Upgrading a classic cluster from CCMv1 to CCMv2Cloudera Docs
Upgrading a classic cluster from CCMv1 to CCMv2
Existing classic clusters (CDH, HDP, or CDP Private Cloud Base) registered in CDP
        Public Cloud’s Management Console with Cluster Connectivity Manager v1 (CCMv1) should be
        upgraded to use CCMv2.

Prior to upgrading, open ports for CCMv2. If you would like to use Cluster
                Connectivity Manager v2 (CCMv2), ensure that outgoing traffic is allowed on port 443
                on the legacy CDH, HDP, or CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. 


Log in to the CDP web interface.

Navigate to the Management Console.

From the left navigation pane, select Classic clusters.
                

Find your previously registered classic cluster.

If your cluster need to be upgraded, you will see the icon next to its
                    name. After clicking on this icon, you will see the Upgrade
                        Now button, as shown in the following screenshot:






Click the Upgrade Now button to start the upgrade
                    process. 

Information about three upgrade steps is displayed:






CDP automatically starts step 1. It normally takes 2-4 minutes. Once step 1 is
                    marked as Completed, you can proceed to step 2. 

In step 2:


Click on Files.


On the Setup Connectivity Client page, select the operating
                            system of your cluster.


Download the files mentioned under Files.


Follow the installation steps described under How to Install.
                            You will need to SSH to the host mentioned in these instructions and run
                            the commands.


Once done, click Close.


Click on Test Connection.


Once the connection is successful, step 2 is marked as
                            Completed. You can proceed to step 3.



In step 3:


Click on Switch.


A pop-up window appears with instructions on how to clean up CCMv1
                            resources. Under Select OS, select your operating system and then
                            follow the cleanup steps described for your cluster type. You need to
                            SSH to the specific cluster node indicated in the instructions in order
                            to perform the cleanup. The steps that you need to perform are as
                            follows (The same steps are printed in the UI):


Centos7/RHEL7On a CDH or CDP Private Cloud
                                        Base cluster, run the following on the Cloudera Manager
                                        host:
                                        systemctl stop ccm-tunnel@CM.service
yum remove autosshOn an HDP cluster, run the following on the KNOX
                                        host:
                                    systemctl stop ccm-tunnel@KNOX.service
yum remove autossh
Centos6/RHEL6On a CDH or CDP Private Cloud
                                        Base cluster, run the following on the Cloudera Manager
                                        host:
                                        service reverse-tunnel stop 'CM'
yum remove autosshOn an HDP cluster, run the following on the KNOX
                                        host:
                                    service reverse-tunnel stop KNOX
yum remove autossh





Once your cluster has been upgraded the  icon appears next to its name.
From the ICON menu of the upgraded cluster select Refresh to
                synchronize the cluster with CDP:






The cluster status changes to Active.


Once you have performed the upgrade, you can continue using your cluster as
                usual.


