




Streams Messaging: Documentation








Cloudera Docs









Streams Messaging


Cloudera Data Platform Runtime streaming components provide a high
performance, highly available, and redundant streams messaging platform.
Streaming components include Apache Kafka, Streams Messaging Manager,
Streams Replication Manager, Schema Registry, and Cruise Control.



Apache Kafka
Configuring Apache Kafka
Provides information about configuring and setting up Kafka.

Securing Apache Kafka
Provides information on how to set up encryption and authentication for Kafka.

Tuning Apache Kafka Performance
Describes how to tune the performance of Kafka for different use cases and scenarios.

Managing Apache Kafka
Describes how to manage and administer Kafka clusters.

Developing Apache Kafka Applications
Provides information on how to develop Kafka clients.

Kafka Connect
Provides information on how to setup, use, and configure Kafka Connect. In addition, contains information on connectors bundeled with Runtime.
 
Cruise Control
Configuring Cruise Control
Describes how to configure Cruise Control for Apache Kafka load balancing workflows.

Securing Cruise Control
Describes how to secure Cruise Control.

Managing Cruise Control
Describes how to use Cruise Control.
 
Streams Replication Manager
Configuring SRM
Describes how to set up and configure Streams Replication Manager.

Using SRM
Describes how to use Streams Replication Manager.

Securing SRM
Describes how to secure Streams Replication Manager.
  

Streams Messaging Manager
Securing Streams Messaging Manager
Describes how to secure Streams Messaging Manager.

Getting Metrics for Streams Messaging Manager
Provides information about how to get metrics for Streams Messaging Manager, the default Cloudera Manager metric store, and how to configure Prometheus as a metric store for Streams Messaging Manager.

Monitoring Kafka Clusters using Streams Messaging Manager
Describes how to use Streams Messaging Manager to monitor Kafka clusters, producers, topics, brokers, and consumers.

Managing Alert Policies using Streams Messaging Manager
Describes how to use Streams Messaging Manager to create, modify, and monitor alert policies and alerts.

Managing Kafka Topics using Streams Messaging Manager
Describes how to create, modify, and delete Kafka topics.

Monitoring End-to-End Latency using Streams Messaging Manager
Describes how you can use Streams Messaging Manager to monitor end-to-end latency in topics.

Monitoring Kafka Cluster Replications using Streams Messaging Manager
Describes how you can use Streams Replication Manager to implement cross-cluster Kafka topic replication.

Monitoring Kafka Connect using Streams Messaging Manager
Describes how to monitor Kafka Connect.
 
Schema Registry
Integrating with Schema Registry
Describes how to integrate Cloudera components with Schema Registry.

Using Schema Registry
Describes how to use Schema Registry.

Securing Schema Registry
Describes how authorization works in Schema Registry.
  
 
 

















