




Storage: Documentation








Cloudera Docs









Storage


Cloudera Runtime provides different types of storage components that you
can use depending on your data requirements. Apache Kudu completes
Apache Hadoop’s storage layer, enabling fast analytics on fast data.
Apache Hadoop HDFS is a distributed file system for storing large
volumes of data. Apache Ozone is a scalable, redundant, and
distributed object store optimized for big data workloads.



Apache Hadoop HDFS
Managing Data Storage
Provides information about optimizing data storage, APIs and services for accessing data, and managing data across clusters.

Configuring Data Protection
Provides information about configuring data protection on a Hadoop cluster.

Accessing Cloud Data
Describes information about the configuration parameters used to access data stored in the cloud.

Configuring HDFS ACLs
Describes the procedure to configure Access Control Lists (ACLs) on Apache Hadoop HDFS.

Configuring Fault Tolerance
Describes the procedure to configure HDFS high availability on a cluster.
 
Apache Ozone
Storing Data using Ozone
Describes configuring and managing data using the Ozone object store.

Configuring Ozone Security
Describes securing data in Ozone clusters and securing access to this data.
  

Apache Kudu
Configuring Apache Kudu
Describes common Apache Kudu configuration tasks.

Managing Apache Kudu
Describes common Apache Kudu management tasks and workflows.

Managing Apache Kudu Security
Provide information about how to configure and manage security for Apache Kudu.

Backing Up and Recovering Apache Kudu
Provide information about how to back up and recover Apache Kudu tables.

Developing Applications with Apache Kudu
Provides reference examples to use C++ and Java client APIs to develop apps using Apache Kudu.

Using Apache Impala with Apache Kudu
Provides information about how to use Apache Kudu as a storage for Apache Impala.

Using Hive Metastore with Apache Kudu
Provides information about how to integrate Hive Metastore with Apache Kudu.

Monitoring Apache Kudu
Provide information about how to monitor Kudu metrics and cluster health, and how to collect diagnostics information.
  
 
 

















