




CDP Private Cloud Base: Documentation








Cloudera Docs7.1.8









CDP Private Cloud Base




CDP Private Cloud Release Notes
CDP Private Cloud Release Summaries


CDP Private Cloud Base is the on-premises version of Cloudera Data
Platform. This new product combines the best of Cloudera Enterprise Data
Hub and Hortonworks Data Platform Enterprise along with new features and
enhancements across the stack . This unified distribution is a scalable
and customizable platform where you can securely run many types of
workloads.
CDP Private Cloud Base supports a variety of hybrid solutions where
compute tasks are separated from data storage and where data can be
accessed from remote clusters, including workloads created using CDP
Private Cloud Data Services. This hybrid approach provides a foundation
for containerized applications by managing storage, table schema,
authentication, authorization and governance.
CDP Private Cloud Base is comprised of a variety of components such as
Apache HDFS, Apache Hive 3, Apache HBase, and Apache Impala, along with
many other components for specialized workloads. You can select any
combination of these services to create clusters that address your
business requirements and workloads. Several pre-configured packages of
services are also available for common workloads.
Cloudera Runtime
Cloudera Runtime is the core open source software distribution within
CDP Private Cloud Base. Cloudera Runtime includes approximately 50 open
source projects that comprise the core distribution of data management
tools within CDP. Cloudera Runtime components are documented in this
library. See
Cloudera Runtime Component Versions
for a list of these components.
Tools
CDP Private Cloud Base also includes the following tools to manage and secure
your deployment:

Cloudera Manager allows you to manage, monitor, and configure your
clusters and services using the Cloudera Manager Admin Console web
application or the Cloudera Manager API.
Apache Atlas provides a set of metadata management and governance
services that enable you to manage CDP cluster assets.
Apache Ranger manages access control through a user interface that
ensures consistent policy administration in CDP clusters.

More Information
The CDP Private Cloud overview
library provides an overview of CDP along with CDP Private Cloud Base
upgrade information.



















