Monitoring Kafka topicsCloudera Docs
Monitoring Kafka topics
By monitoring Kafka topics, you can track the total number of topics in your cluster and
  details about the topics. You can also monitor Grafana metrics for the topics in your
  cluster.
Viewing the total number of topics in your cluster
You can see the total number of topics in your Kafka cluster on the
     Overview page.




Detailed information about topics
The Topics page contains a number of useful details about your Kafka
    topics. This page helps you answer the following questions:

How can I see if the replicas in this topic are in sync?
How do I see this topic's retention rate?
How can I see the replication factor for this topic? 
How do I see the producers and consumers that are connected to this topic?
How do I find the total number of messages going into this topic, over a specified time
     range? 

To access this detailed topic information:

From the left navigation pane, click Topics.
Identify the topic about which you want information. You can either scroll through the list
     of topics, or use the Search bar at the top left of the page.
Click the green hexagon at the left of the topic to view details.





Viewing topic messages using Data Explorer
Data Explorer is a simple Kafka consumer within SMM. It enables you to view the  content of a
        Kafka topic. You can select any Kafka topic and any partition within that topic, and view
        messages from the selected partition.
You can reach Data Explorer in two ways. One way is from the Topics
        page, and the other is from the Overview page. In both pages, you need
        to either click the magnifier icon, or navigate to the Topic Details
        page and then select the Data Explorer tab. The following steps
        describe the process:
Log in to the SMM UI.
From the left navigation pane, click Topics.
Identify the topic for which you want the message information. You can either scroll
            through the list of topics, or use the Search bar to find a
            topic.
Click the Data Explorer icon for that topic.

The Data Explorer dialog appears.

Alternatively, you can click the Profile icon for
              that topic.

 Then go to the Data Explorer tab.


Select any of the following modes in the Isolation Level
              option:
read_committed
read_uncommitted
The isolation level specifies whether uncommitted transactional messages should
              be read. By default, it is set to read_uncommitted. 
Select the deserializer types for the Keys and
              Values options.For example, if you select Avro, SMM uses the
              schema that can be found in Schema Registry to deserialize the messages.
Select a Partition.The Kafka topic must have partitions to
              select from.
Select a value for the From Offset field.You can also use
              the selection bar to select an offset value. The maximum value is the offset of the
              last message. Click  to refresh the partition offset range and to fetch the
              latest messages.
Select a Record Limit.The record limit value is the number
              of messages that are fetched starting from the message offset number selected in the
                From Offset field.
To see long messages, click show more beside a message.The
              message opens in a dialog or a new tab based on the size of the message.
Click the Schema Registry icon to go to
            the related page in the Schema Registry UI.






Increasing topic partition
You can increase the number of partitions of a topicwarningIncreasing the partition numbers can impact the use of keys on messages.
          The data that is already written is not redistributed using the new partition, but remains
          on the partition on which it was located.
The following steps describe the process:
Log in to the SMM UI.
From the left navigation pane, click Topics.
Identify the topic for which you want to increase the topic partition number. You can
            either scroll through the list of topics, or use the Search bar
            to find a topic.
Click the Profile icon for that topic.
Go to the Configs tab.




Enter the partition number in Partitions or increase it using
            the arrows.
Click Save.A dialog appears to ensure the
            increment.
Click Yes.
Refresh the page to see the change.


Getting current state of the topic partitions (Tech Preview)
The experimental Assignment tab, on the topic details page, shows
        the current state of the topic. It shows some topic-level statistics and the replica
        assignment of all partitions. If rack awareness is used in the Kafka cluster, the replica
        assignment is shown in a rack-based view. If the rack IDs follow the format of multi-level
        rack IDs, the rack IDs are rendered as a hierarchy. For more information on rack awareness,
        see Kafka rack awareness.
To go to the Assignment tab, click the
          Profile icon for a topic from the Overview
        or Topics page, and then click the Assignment
        tab. You can view the following statistics there:
Number of offline partitionsShows the number of offline partitions in the topic. A
              partition is offline if it does not have a leader. Partitions can become offline if
              all their in-sync replicas are offline.
Number of under-min-ISR partitionsShows the number of under-min-ISR partitions in
              the topic. A partition is in an under-min-ISR state if the number of in-sync replicas
              is lower than the value set in the min.insync.replicas property of
              the topic. The minimum in-sync replicas configuration defines how many replicas must
              acknowledge a produced message before the produce request is considered
              successful.
Number of under-replicated partitionsShows the number of under-replicated
              partitions in the topic. A partition is under-replicated if it has at least one
              out-of-sync replica.
Number of unevenly distributed partitionsThis appears if rack awareness is being
                used.importantThis statistics is based on
                standard rack awareness, and does not respect the multi-level rack IDs. This means
                that a partition might be shown as evenly distributed while in terms of multi-level
                rack awareness it should be considered unevenly distributed.Shows the
              number of unevenly distributed partitions in the topic. A partition is unevenly
              distributed if the difference between the maximum and minimum number of replicas in a
              rack is greater than one. This typically suggests that the partition does not meet
              expected durability guarantees or that it causes uneven load on the cluster. If a
              partition is unevenly distributed, try reassigning them. In most cases, unevenly
              distributed partitions become evenly distributed across the racks after
              reassignment.
Number of unused racksThis appears if rack awareness is being used.Shows the
              number of racks which are currently not used by this topic. A rack is unused if the
              topic has no replicas residing in that rack. This typically suggests that the
              partition does not meet expected durability guarantees because it is not using all
              available racks (physical locations) to store replicas of the data. This is expected
              and does not cause issues for non-critical topics that have an intentionally low
              replication factor.

In the replica assignment table, replicas are shown with different colors:

Leader replicas are green
In-sync replicas are blue
Out-of-sync replicas are red

In addition, offline partitions and out-of-sync partitions are red. Under-replicated
        partitions, unevenly distributed racks, and unused racks are orange. When a specific
        partition or rack has one of these issues, a warning sign appears next to it.
Leader and in-sync replicas also act as links to the corresponding broker details page.
In the table header and in the first column, warning icons are shown if the specific column
        or row is affected by one of the issues listed in the topic statistics.
The following image shows the Assignment tab without racks:


The following image shows the Assignment tab with racks:


The following image shows the Assignment tab with racks, but with
        one broker metadata unknown, which adds an extra Unknown column to
        the table:




Related informationKafka rack awareness