Minimal setup for Azure cloud storageCloudera Docs
Minimal setup for Azure cloud storage
This minimal secure setup uses one ADLS Gen2 storage account with multiple containers
    in it, and multiple managed identities where each managed identity has at least one role
    assigned. 
ADLS Gen2 storage account
You should create one ADLS Gen2 storage account with two containers within it (one for
          Storage Location Base and another for Logs Location Base). Additionally, you
        can specify a container for Backup Location Base to store FreeIPA and Data Lake
        backup data separately from logs:

One ADLS Gen2 container is required to use as Storage Location Base such as
          abfs://storagefs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net where
          mydatalake is your storage account name and storagefs is
          your container name. The Storage Location Base is used for storing workload data and
          Ranger audits.
One ADLS Gen2 container is required to use as Logs Location Base such as
          abfs://logsfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net where
          mydatalake is your storage account name and logsfs is
          your container name. The Logs Location Base is used for Data Lake, FreeIPA and Data
          Hub logs, and FreeIPA and Data Lake backups. 
noteRanger audits are stored under Storage Location Base and not under Logs
              Location Base. The Logs Location Base is used for Data Lake, Data Hub and
              FreeIPA logs and, if no separate container is provided, FreeIPA backups. 

(Optional) One optional ADLS Gen2 container to use as Backup Location Base such as
            abfs://backupfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net where
            mydatalake is your storage account name and backupfs
          is your container name. The Backup Location Base is used for FreeIPA and Data Lake
          backups. If a separate container is not provided, the backups are stored in the Logs
            Location Base.

Storage Location Base examples




abfs://storagefs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net


Ranger Audit Logs
abfs://storagefs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net/ranger/audit



Logs Location Base examples


abfs://logsfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net


FreeIPA Logs
abfs://logsfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net/cluster-logs/freeipaIf your
                  environment was created prior to February 2021, this is
                  abfs://logsfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net/freeipa 


Backup Location Base examples
If you specify a separate container for FreeIPA backups, the backups are written to that
        container:




abfs://backupfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net


FreeIPA Backup

abfs://backupfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net/cluster-backups/freeipa




If the separate container is not provided, the FreeIPA backups are written to the Logs
        Location Base. In both cases, the same cluster-backups/freeipa directory
        structure is created within the container.

Managed identities
You should create four managed identities. 
The IDBroker component of CDP uses user-assigned managed identities for controlling access
        to ADLS Gen2 and stores and manages the mappings between the services/users and the
        corresponding managed identities. The following managed identities must be created:


Managed identity
Description
Steps



Assumer (Required)
During Data Lake cluster creation, CDP attaches this identity to the IDBroker
                  VM. IDBroker then uses it to attach the other managed identities to the IDBroker
                  VM. Once these identities are attached to the VM, IDBroker can acquire an access
                  token for them (to eliminate the need to store credentials in the application). 


Create a managed identity.
Assign the Virtual Machine Contributor and Managed Identity
                        Operator roles to this managed identity on the scope of the
                      subscription.
Assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to this managed
                      identity on the scope of the Logs Location Base and Backup Location
                        Base (if created) containers created for CDP.




Data Lake Admin (Required)
This managed identity is used for CDP services to access data.


Create a managed identity.
Assign the Storage Blob Data Owner role to this managed identity on
                      the scope of the three containers (Storage Location Base, Logs
                        Location Base, and Backup Location Base if it exists) created for
                      CDP. 




Ranger Audit Logger (Required)
This managed identity is used by Ranger to write audits. 


Create a managed identity.
Assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to this managed
                      identity on the scope of the Storage Location Base container created
                      for CDP. 
Additionally, if you created a separate container for Backup Location
                        Base, assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to this
                      managed identity on the scope of the Backup Location Base. Otherwise,
                      assign it on the Logs Location Base container.




Logger (Required)
This managed identity is used by CDP to write telemetry logs. 


Create a managed identity.
Assign Storage Blob Data Contributor role to this managed identity on
                      the scope of the Logs Location Base and Backup Location Base (if
                      created) created for CDP.




Ranger RAZ (Optional)
This managed identity is only required if you are planning to use Fine-grained access control. It is used
                    by CDP to orchestrate fine-grained access control to your data storage
                    location.


Create a managed identity.
Assign the Storage Blob Data Owner role and the Storage Blob
                        Delegator to this managed identity on the scope of the ADLS Gen2
                        storage account created for CDP.If you prefer not to assign the
                          Storage Blob Data Owner role, you can Create a custom role to use in RAZ-enabled
                          Azure environment and assign that role and the Storage Blob
                          Delegator instead.




The following diagram illustrates the minimal required setup where Backup Location
          Base is in the same location as the Logs Location Base:



The following diagram illustrates the minimal required setup where Backup Location
          Base and Logs Location Base are separate:



If you are planning to use fine-grained access control, one additional managed identity is
        required, as illustrated in the following diagrams. 
The first diagram illustrates the scenario where Backup Location Base is in the same
        location as the Logs Location Base: 



The second diagram illustrates the scenario where Backup Location Base and Logs
        Location Base are separate:



The following documentation provides detailed steps on how to create this setup. The
        steps involve:
Creating an ADLS Gen2 storage account and containers 
Creating managed identities for the minimal setup
Providing the parameters in the CDP UI



Parent topic: ADLS Gen2 and managed identities for logs, backups, and data storage
Creating ADLS Gen2 storage account and containers
Create a resource group and then create a storage account and two containers within it.
    The storage account must have the hierarchical namespace enabled.

First, create a resource group that can act as a logical grouping of storage accounts. To
        create the resource group, follow the steps described in Create resource groups in Azure docs. Make sure to
        create it in the specific region that you would like to use for your environment.

Next, create an ADLS Gen2 storage account. In our example setup, the storage account name
          is my-datalake. To create the storage account, follow the Create an account using the Azure portal in Azure
          docs. In the Advanced > Data Lake Storage Gen2 section, make sure to Enable
            hierarchical namespace:



noteYou can reuse the same resource group that you created for the storage account or you
          can optionally create a new resource group that can act as a logical grouping of managed
          identities. 

After creating an ADLS Gen 2 storage account, create two containers within it (one for
          Storage Location Base and another for Logs Location Base). You can also
        optionally create a third container for Backup Location Base. To create a container,
          follow the usual steps:
On Azure Portal, navigate to Storage Accounts > your newly created storage
            account > Containers > +Container.
Provide a name for your container and click OK. 
Repeat these steps to create all required containers. In our example setup, the
          containers are called storagefs, logsfs, and
            backupfs. 

Once you have created the storage account and container, note the created resources in the
      following format:
abfs://$[container-name]@$[storage-account-name].dfs.core.windows.net
For example, in our example setup, we created the following two containers:
abfs://storagefs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net
abfs://logsfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net
abfs://backupfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net


Creating Azure managed identities
Once you’ve created the storage account and file system within it, create the managed identities and then assign roles with specific scopes to these identities. 
You can reuse the same resource group that you created for the storage account or you can optionally create a new resource group that can act as a logical grouping of managed identities. 
You need to create four or five managed identities (Assumer, Data Lake Admin, Ranger Audit
        Logger, Logger, and optionally the Ranger RAZ). Use the following steps to create
      these managed identities: 

On Azure Portal, navigate to Managed Identities.
Click +Add. 
Specify managed identity name and select the resource group that you created earlier.

Repeat these steps to create each of the four managed identities. Once you’ve created these managed identities, assign roles with specific scopes (subscription or storage account) to these identities as follows. 
Create the Assumer identity
Assign the Virtual Machine Contributor role and the Managed Identity Operator
        role to the Assumer managed identity on subscription level and then assign the
          Storage Blob Data Contributor on the scope of the container created earlier for
          Logs Location Base.
Steps

Navigate to Subscriptions > your subscription > Access Control
              (IAM).
Click +Add.
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Virtual Machine Contributor.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the Assumer managed identity created earlier. 
Click Save. 

Repeat the role assignment steps 2-3, but this time assign the Managed Identity
              Operator role to the Assumer Identity. 
Next, assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to the Assumer
        managed identity on the scope of the containers created earlier for Logs Location
          Base and Backup Location Base (if separate):


Navigate to Storage accounts > your storage account > Containers
            > your container > Access Control (IAM). 
Click +Add > Add role assignment. 
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Storage Blob Data Contributor.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the Assumer managed identity created earlier. 
Click Save. 




Create the Data Lake Admin identity
Assign the Storage Blob Data Owner role to the Data Lake Admin managed
        identity on the scope of the two containers created earlier for Storage Location Base
        and Logs Location Base, and to the Backup Location Base container if it
        exists. You need to do this separately for each of the containers.
Steps

Navigate to Storage accounts > your storage account > Containers
          > your container > Access Control (IAM). 
Click +Add > Add role assignment. 
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Storage Blob Data Owner.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the Data Lake Admin managed identity created
              earlier. 
Click Save. 


Repeat the steps for the second container and for the third container (if you created
        it).

Create the Ranger Audit Logger identity
Assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to the Ranger Audit Logger
        managed identity on the scope of the container created earlier for Storage Location
          Base. If you created a separate container for Backup Location Base, you should
        also repeat these steps on the container created earlier for Backup Location Base.
        Otherwise, they should be repeated on the Logs Location Base container. 
Steps

Navigate to Storage accounts > your storage account > Containers
            > your container > Access Control (IAM). 
Click +Add > Add role assignment. 
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Storage Blob Data Contributor.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the Ranger Audit Logger managed identity
                created earlier.
Click Save. 

Repeat the steps for the second container and for the third container (if you created
        it).

Create the Logger identity
Assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to the Logger managed identity
        on the scope of the container created earlier for Logs Location Base. If you created
        a separate container for Backup Location Base, you should also assign the same role
        to the same managed identity on the scope of the container created earlier for Backup
          Location Base.
Steps

Navigate to Storage accounts > your storage account > Containers
          > your container > Access Control (IAM). 
Click +Add > Add role assignment. 
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Storage Blob Data Contributor.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the Logger managed identity created earlier. 
Click Save. 

If you created a separate container for Backup Location Base, you should perform
          steps 1-3 to also assign the Storage Blob Data Contributor role to the Logger
          managed identity on the scope of the container created earlier for Backup Location
            Base.


Create the Ranger RAZ identity (Optional)
If you would like to use Fine-grained access control, you should create
          the Ranger RAZ managed identity. Assign the Storage Blob Data Owner role and
        the Storage Blob Delegator role to the Ranger RAZ managed identity on the scope of
        the storage account that you created earlier (which contains the Storage Location
          Base and Logs Location Base).
Steps


Navigate to Storage accounts > your storage account > Access Control
            (IAM). 
Click +Add > Add role assignment. 
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Storage Blob Data Owner.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the Ranger RAZ managed identity created
                earlier.
Click Save. 

Repeat the role assignment steps 2-3, but this time assign the Storage Blob
              Delegator role to the Ranger RAZ managed identity. 


After performing these steps, you should have the required managed identities created and
        their roles assigned on the correct scope. 



Providing the parameters in the CDP UI
Once you’ve created the ADLS Gen2 location and the required managed identities, provide
    the information related to these resources in the Register Environment wizard.



Parameter


Description




Data Access and Audit


Assumer Identity
Select the Assumer identity created earlier. 


Storage Location Base
Enter the Storage Location Base created earlier. In our example this was
              abfs://storagefs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net, so you should
              enter storagefs@mydatalake. 


Data Access Identity
Select the Data Lake Admin identity created earlier. 


Ranger Audit Identity
Select the Ranger Audit identity created earlier. 



Fine-grained access control on ADLS Gen2



Enable Ranger authorization for ADLS Gen2
If you would like to use Fine-grained access control, click on
                "Enable Ranger authorization for ADLS Gen2". Next, select the Ranger RAZ identity
                created earlier.


Select Azure managed identity for Ranger authorization


Logs


Logger Identity 
Select the Logger identity created earlier.


Logs Location Base
Enter the Logs Location Base created earlier. In our example this was
              abfs://logsfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net, so you should
              enter logsfs@mydatalake. 


Backup Location Base (Optional)
If you created it, enter the Backup Location Base. In our example this was
                  abfs://backupfs@mydatalake.dfs.core.windows.net, so you should
                enter backupfs@mydatalake. This is optional. If you don't provide
                this, FreeIPA and Data Lake backups will be stored in the Logs Location
                Base.



