Resource groupsCloudera Docs
Resource groups
CDP can provision all the environment and cluster resources into your existing resource
    group or you can also have CDP create multiple new resource groups. 
CDP supports two resource group related scenarios:


Option
Description
Requirements
Permissions
Termination



Provide a single existing resource group
Provide a single existing resource group during environment creation
              and all CDP resources will be provisioned into that single resource group. No other
              resource groups will be created by CDP.You should select this option
                if you are planning to use Fine-grained access control. 
If planning to use Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), do not use an underscore
              ( _ ) when naming the resource group and use a short resource group name. The name
              must be fewer than 64 characters. 
The scope of permissions in the role definition provided for CDP can be
              reduced to only the existing resource group where you would like CDP to create
              resources.
The resource group will not be deleted when your environment is terminated. The VHDs copied into your resource group during environment creation will
              not be deleted during environment termination. CDP preserves them to speed up
              subsequent environment deployments.


CDP creates multiple resource groups
CDP can create multiple resource groups. For the list of all the
              resource groups created, refer to Azure resources used by CDP.Do not use this option if you are planning to use
                  fine-grained access control. 
N/A
The scope of permissions in the role definition provided for CDP should
              be the whole subscription.
The resource groups will be deleted when your environment is
              terminated, except for the cloudbreak-images resource group (which stores VHDs for VM
              deployment).


If you would like to provide your own resource group, you can create it using the
      following instructions:

Manage Azure Resource Manager resource groups by using the
        Azure portal
Manage Azure Resource Manager resource groups by using the
        Azure CLI
Manage Azure Resource Manager resource groups by using the
        Azure PowerShell


Related informationAzure permissionsParent topic: Azure resources and services