VNet and subnetsCloudera Docs
VNet and subnets
When registering an Azure environment in CDP, you will be asked to select a VNet and one or more subnets.
You have two options:

Use your existing VNet and subnets for provisioning CDP resources.
Have CDP create a new VNet and subnets. All CDP resources will be provisioned into this new VNet and subnets.

note
If you want to create an environment with cloud storage where access is allowed only from
        selected networks, then you must provide your own existing network. Furthermore, ensure that
        the network service endpoint for storage is placed on all the subnets and that the endpoint
        is connected to the storage account that you want to use. 

Existing VNet and subnets
If you would like to use your own VNet, it needs to fulfill the following requirements:

The VNet has at least one subnet. If you are planning to run more than Data Hub, you
            need additional subnets as specified in  VNet and subnet planning.

VNet should be able to make an outbound connection with the internet or set of CIDRs
            and ports provided by Cloudera. 

If you would like to deploy Data Warehouse in your environment, make sure Azure
            VNet subnets are large enough to support the DW load. When an Azure environment is
            activated for DW service, an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster is provisioned in
            your subscription. The AKS cluster uses the Azure Container Networking Interface (CNI) plug-in for
            Kubernetes. This plug-in assigns IP addresses for every pod running inside the
            Kubernetes cluster. By default, the maximum number of pods per node is 30. This means
            that you need approximately 3,200 IP addresses for a 99-node cluster. if you activate an
            environment for DW service, make sure that the subnets are large enough on the Azure
            VNet for the DW load. Cloudera recommends using a CIDR/20 subnet or larger.

Configure service endpoints as described in Set up service endpoint for network. If you
            would like to use private endpoints instead of service endpoints for Data Lake and Data
            Hub, meet the requirements described in Private endpoint for PostgreSQL; However, if you
            would like to use the Data Warehouse service, you still need service endpoints
            regardless of what you choose for Data Lake and Data Hub. 

If you would like to deploy Machine Learning, note that each CML workspace
            requires its own subnet.

If you would like to deploy Data Engineering, note that each Data Engineeering
            Service requires its own subnet.

warning
Be careful if deploying into an existing subnet that has an existing Network Security Group
          (NSG) applied to it. In such case, there is an NSG present at VM (NIC) level and subnet
          level at the same time. This can cause a problem because the two settings are evaluated
          independently (For incoming traffic, the NSG set at the subnet level is evaluated first,
          then the NSG set at the VM (NIC) level. For outgoing traffic the evaluation is the
          reverse), and if an "allow" rule does not exist at both levels, the traffic will not be
          admitted. Therefore, if you need to use such a setup, you should ensure that the "allow"
          rule exists on both levels. 

Verify the limits of the VNet and subnets available in your Azure subscription to ensure that you have enough resources to create clusters in CDP.
VNets can be created and managed from the Azure Portal > Virtual Networks. For
        detailed instructions on how to create a new VNet on Azure, refer to Create a virtual network using the Azure portal in
        Azure documentation.  

Egress connectivity for existing VNets and subnets
When you deploy an environment with an existing network of your own configuration, it is
        your responsibility to create egress connectivity for the required subnets in your VNet.
        Egress connectivity can be accomplished through a NAT gateway setup or user-defined routing. Alternatively you can
        create a secondary load balancer for public egress. See Azure Load Balancers in Data Lake and Data
          Hub for more information.

New VNet and subnets
If you would like CDP to create a new VNet, you will need to specify a valid CIDR in IPv4
        range that will be used to define the range of private IPs for VM instances provisioned into
        these subnets. Default is 10.10.0.0/16. Consider changing the IP range to correspond to
        corporate policies for standardized IP address ranges. The CIDR must match the <network
        mask>/16 pattern. 
By default CDP creates more than 30 subnets and divides the address space as follows: 


3 x /24 public subnets for Data Lake and Data Hub 
3 x /19 private subnets for Data Warehouse
32 x /24 private subnets for Machine Learning and Data Engineering
3 x /19 private subnets reserved for future use


You can disable creating private subnets, in which case only 3 public subnets will be
        created. 
For more information about VNet and subnets, refer to the following VNet and subnet
        planning documentation. 

Egress connectivity for new VNets and subnets
If you are creating a new network during environment registration, CDP ensures that egress
        connectivity is available. If the "Create Public IPs" option and Public Endpoint Access
        Gateway are disabled in your network, a separate load balancer is created for egress, though
        this load balancer requires certain public IP permissions that are granted as part of the
          required Azure permissions. If either "Create
        Public IPs" or Public Endpoint Access Gateway is enabled, then a public load balancer is
        created to handle both public ingress to port 443 and public egress. 

Azure Load Balancers in Data Lake and Data
          Hub for more information.


Service endpoint for Azure PostgresOn Azure, the external PostgreSQL database can reach the network via a service endpoint     or a private endpoint. If you would like to use a service endpoint, before you can set up an     external database for a given network, you must enable service endpoints for all subnets where     the database should be reachable. Private endpoint for Azure PostgresBy default CDP uses service endpoints, but you can select to use private   endpoints instead. During environment registration you can optionally select the “Create Private   Endpoint” option to use private endpoints instead of using a service endpoint. Currently, only one   service or private endpoint is used, for Azure Postgres. VNet and subnet planningWhether you decide to use your own VNet for CDP or have CDP create one for you, you   should carefully plan your network, calculating and verifying the limits of the VNet and subnets   available in your Azure subscription to ensure that you have enough networking resources to create   clusters in CDP.  Parent topic: Azure resources and services