Onboarding CDP users and groups for Azure cloud storage (No RAZ)Cloudera Docs
Onboarding CDP users and groups for Azure cloud storage (No RAZ)
The minimal setup defined earlier spins up a CDP environment and Data Lake with no end
    user access to cloud storage. Adding users and groups to a CDP environment involves ensuring
    that they are properly mapped to managed identities to access cloud storage.
noteIf you are using Fine-grained access control, you should onboard your
      users using Ranger instead of using IDBroker mappings. Adding IDBroker mappings is disabled
      for RAZ-enabled environments.
In general, to have new users or groups onboarded, you need to have the following pre-created
      in Azure:

First, you need to create two more containers within the storage account
            (mydatalake) created earlier, one for data engineers (for
        example, dataeng) and one for data scientists (for example,
            datascience). 
Next, you need to create two more managed identities, one for data engineers (for example,
            data-eng-mi) and one for data scientists (for example,
            data-eng-mi) and assign the Storage Blob Data Owner role
        on the scope of one these two nearly created containers. The
          data-eng-mi managed identity will need the Storage Blob Data
          Owner role on the scope of the dataeng container and the
            data-science-mi managed identity will need the Storage Blob
          Data Owner role on the scope of the datascience container.
Finally, you also need to grant the Data Lake Admin managed identity created
        earlier the Storage Blob Data Owner role on the scope of these two newly created
        containers. 

The final goal is to have the following that builds on the minimal setup presented earlier. 
The first diagram illustrates the scenario where Backup Location Base is in the same
      location as the Logs Location Base:



The second diagram illustrates the scenario where Backup Location Base and Logs
        Location Base are separate:



The following documentation provides detailed steps for how to create this setup. The steps
      involve: 
Creating additional containers
Crating additional managed identities 
Creating mappings in CDP 
Updating the Data Lake Admin managed identity 


Parent topic: ADLS Gen2 and managed identities for logs, backups, and data storage
Creating additional containers
Within the ADLS Gen 2 storage account (mydatalake) created earlier,
  create two more containers (dataeng and
  datascience).
To create a file system, perform the following steps:

 On Azure Portal, navigate to Storage Accounts > your newly created storage account
    > Containers > +Container.
Provide a name for your container and click OK. 

Repeat these steps to create both containers. 


Creating additional managed identities
After creating the two additional container, create two additional managed identities,
    one for data engineers (data-eng-mi) and one data scientists
    (data-science-mi).
To create the two new managed identities, perform the following steps: 

On Azure Portal, navigate to Managed Identities.
Click +Add. 
Specify managed identity name and select the resource group that you created earlier.

Repeat these steps to create each of the two managed identities. Once you’ve created these
      managed identities, assign roles with specific scopes (limited to one of the two containers,
      dataeng or datascience respectively) to these identities as follows: 

Navigate to Storage accounts > your storage account > Containers >
        your container > Access Control (IAM). 
Click +Add > Add role assignment. 
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Storage Blob Data Owner.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the managed identity. 
Click Save. 


After performing these steps for each of the two managed identities, you should have the
      required managed identities created and their roles assigned on the correct scope. 


Adding CDP user/group to managed identity mappings
After creating the two additional managed identities, one for data engineers
   (data-eng-mi) and one data scientists (data-science-mi), map
  them to specific user/group in CDP. 
noteIf you are using Fine-grained access control, you should onboard your
      users using Ranger instead of using IDBroker mappings. Adding IDBroker mappings is disabled
      for RAZ-enabled environments.
note
If a user is mapped to multiple roles via group membership, the specific role to be used
        needs to be provided at runtime. If the user is mapped directly to a role, the direct mapping
        takes precedence over mapping via group membership. For information on how to specify the
        role, refer to Specifying a group when user belongs to multiple
          groups. 

Required role: DataSteward, EnvironmentAdmin, or Owner 
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI


The option to add/modify these mappings is available from the Management Console under
              Environments > click on an environment > Actions > Manage Access > IDBroker
                Mappings > Edit.
Under Current Mappings, click Edit.
Click + to display a new field for adding a mapping.
Provide the following:
The User or Group dropdown is pre-populated with CDP users and groups. Select
                the user or group that you would like to map.
Under Role, specify the resource ID of a managed identity (copied from Azure
                Portal). You should select your data-eng-mi here.

Repeat the previous two steps to add additional mapping for the
              data-science-mi. 
Click Save and Sync.



If you would like to create the mappings via CDP CLI, you can: 

Use the cdp environments get-id-broker-mappings command to obtain your
            current mappings. 
Use the cdp environments set-id-broker-mappings command to set
            additional mappings. The only way to use this command is to:
Pass all the current mappings
Add the new mappings 

Next, sync IDBroker mappings. For
            example:cdp environments sync-id-broker-mappings --environment-name demo3
Finally, check the sync status. For
            example:cdp environments get-id-broker-mappings-sync-status --environment-name demo3




Updating access for the Data Lake Admin managed identity
Grant the Data Lake Admin identity created earlier the Storage Blob Data Owner role on
  the scope of the two newly created containers.
Perform the following steps for both dataeng or datascience
   containers to grant the Data Lake Admin managed identity access to them: 

Navigate to Storage accounts > your storage account > Containers >
    your container > Access Control (IAM). 
Click +Add > Add role assignment. 
Under Add role assignment: 
Under Role, select Storage Blob Data Owner.
Under Assign access to, select User assigned managed identity.
Under Select, select the Data Lake Admin Identity created earlier. 
Click Save. 


Repeat these steps to provide Data Lake admin with access to both containers.

