Azure resources and servicesCloudera Docs
Azure resources and services
CDP uses various resources in your Azure account.
Use the following guidelines to ensure that CDP has access to the resources in your Azure account and that your Azure account has all the necessary resources required by CDP: 

Prerequisites for the provisioning credentialTo allow CDP to create resources on your Azure account, you must create the app-based     credential. The credential allows CDP to access and provision a set of resources in your Azure     account.Azure regionPrior to registering an environment, you should decide which Azure region you would     like to use.Resource groupsCDP can provision all the environment and cluster resources into your existing resource     group or you can also have CDP create multiple new resource groups. VNet and subnetsWhen registering an Azure environment in CDP, you will be asked to select a VNet and one or more subnets.Network security groupsNetwork security groups (NSGs) determine the inbound and outbound traffic to and from your CDP environment. That is, you should use security group settings to allow users from your organization access to CDP resources.SSH key pairWhen registering an environment, you will be asked to upload an SSH key pair. The minimum SSH key size is 2048 bits.Virtual machinesCDP provisions Virtual machines (VMs) as part of the environment creation process (for     Data Lake and FreeIPA) and for compute clusters.ADLS Gen2 and managed identities for logs, backups, and data storageCDP requires that you create and provide an Azure Data Lake Store Gen 2 (ADLS Gen2)     storage account and create a container within it for storing workload data and logs.     Furthermore, in order for CDP to be able to access this container, you must create and assign     managed identities. ADLS Gen2 account for storing operating system imagesCDP uses an ADLS Gen2 storage account for storing operating system images used for VMs.   By default, CDP creates this account during environment registration, but you can optionally   pre-create it. If needed, you can also copy the VHD files and create image resources manually. Azure Database for PostgreSQLCDP provisions a PostgreSQL database as part of the environment creation process (for   Data Lake). Prior to creating an Azure environment in CDP, the Azure Database for PostgreSQL must   be enabled in the regions that you want to use with CDP. Customer managed encryption keysBy default, local Data Lake, FreeIPA, and Data Hub disks attached to Azure VMs and the   PostgreSQL server instance used by the Data Lake and Data Hubs are encrypted with server-side   encryption (SSE) using Platform Managed Keys (PMK), but you can optionally configure SSE with   Customer Managed Keys (CMK). Azure Files storage account and file share for Machine LearningIf you would like to use the Machine Learning data service, create Azure Files storage   account and file share. Azure Files NFS v4.1 is a managed, POSIX compliant NFS service on Azure.   The file share is used to store files for the CML infrastructure and ML workspaces.Azure Files NFS for Machine LearningIf you would like to use the Machine Learning data service, Azure Files NFS is the   recommended NFS service.Azure quota limitsWhen you create your Azure Portal subscription, Azure Portal sets limits to the   resources available to you. The limits can vary by region.Overview of Azure resources used by CDPThe following Azure resources are used by CDP and CDP services.