Resources created under the hoodCloudera Docs
Resources created under the hood
Creating a CDP environment on Azure with private endpoints in CDP involves creating
  several Azure resources, all of which are necessary to have a private endpoint setup that works
  out-of-the-box.
These create a setup where: 


A private endpoint to the Postgres server can be reached.


A network interface with only a private IP address exists in the subnet where the
     private endpoint has been added.


This ensures that communication between CDP and the Azure Postgres server happens via
   a private IP address. However, cluster services do need to contact the Postgres server via FQDN,
   so the address needs to be resolvable from the VNet.
Resources created when using a CDP-managed private DNS zone
In the scenario where CDP creates the private DNS, several resources are
    created:


A private DNS zone: It is a DNS zone, part of an Azure-hosted DNS server. It has a
      fixed name (“privatelink.postgres.database.azure.com”).


A virtual network link between the zone and a VNet where the domain resolution
      should happen.


An “A“ record within the zone: FQDN to IP address resolution. There is no reverse
      lookup.


Since communication can flow over a private IP address, CDP sets “Deny public
      access” on the Azure Postgres server.


note
If there is a private DNS zone named “privatelink.postgres.database.azure.com”
     containing the required virtual network link in the deployment’s resource group, CDP reuses it.
     The “A“ record and the network link are created only if they do not already exist.

When you delete the environment, the DNS zone and the network link that you provided will not
    be deleted.

Resources created when using a your own private DNS zone
In this case the private DNS zone and the network link are provided by you and CDP
    creates the following:


CDP creates an “A“ record within the zone: FQDN to IP address resolution. There is
      no reverse lookup.


Since communication can flow over a private IP address, CDP sets “Deny public
      access” on the Azure Postgres server.


When you delete the environment, the DNS zone and the network link that you provided
    will not be deleted.


Related informationVirtual network workloads without custom DNS serverAzure services DNS zone configurationParent topic: Private endpoint for Azure Postgres