Using CDP-managed private DNSCloudera Docs
Using CDP-managed private DNS
Review this documentation if you are planning to use a private endpoint for Azure
  Postgres with a CDP-managed DNS.
Parent topic: Private endpoint for Azure Postgres
Requirements and limitations
The following limitations apply when using a CDP-managed private DNS: 


Only Azure’s private DNS zone is supported. Using an on-premise DNS is not
     supported.


Private endpoints can only be used with a single customer-provided resource group.
     They cannot be used with CDP-created multiple resource groups. When creating an environment
     from the UI, the “Create Private Endpoints” option is disabled if you select the option for CDP
     to create multiple resource groups. If using CDP CLI, a validation error appears if this option
     is used with CDP creating multiple resource groups.


The private DNS zone must be in the single existing resource group, even if the
     VNet is located elsewhere. This is because:


Microsoft requires that the DNS zone has a fixed name.


A VNet cannot have links to two different DNS zones with the same name.


It is not possible to check if a VNet already has a DNS zone with a given name
       attached to it.




Only one resource group can have private endpoints with a given VNet. This is
     because:


Only one DNS zone with a given name can be linked to a VNet.


That DNS zone must be in the single resource group where all the resources are
       located.




The private DNS zone and virtual network links are shared within the single
     resource group. The first environment ever created in that resource group will create them.
     They will never be deleted by CDP. 


The private DNS zone creation cannot be turned off. There is no option to create
     private endpoints but not create a private DNS zone. You can, however, choose to specify your
     own existing private DNS zone. See Bringing your own private DNS.




Prerequisites
 In order to use a CDP-managed private DNS, you should meet the following
  prerequisites:

Disable private endpoint network policies
Review DNS zones existing in your resource group
Ensure that CDP has adequate permissions

Disable private endpoint network policies
Only subnets that have private endpoint network policies turned off are eligible for
    private endpoint creation, because network security groups (NSG) are not supported for private
    endpoints.
You can use the following Azure CLI command to disable private endpoint network
    policies for a certain subnet:

az network vnet subnet update \
  --name <subnet-name> \
  --resource-group <resource-group-name> \
  --vnet-name <vnet-name> \
  --disable-private-endpoint-network-policies true

For example: 
az network vnet subnet update \
  --name default-2 \
  --resource-group my-cdp-rg \
  --vnet-name my-azure-vnet \
  --disable-private-endpoint-network-policies true

Review DNS zones existing in your resource group


If you want CDP to create and manage the private DNS zone, review the DNS zones
      that exist in the resource group that you are planning to use for CDP and make sure that one
      of the following is true:


No private DNS zone named “privatelink.postgres.database.azure.com“ is
        connected to the VNnet. 


If there is a private DNS zone named
         “privatelink.postgres.database.azure.com“ connected to the VNet, verify that the
        zone is located in the existing resource group that you are planning to use for CDP. If the
        private DNS zone is already used for one environment, CDP can reuse it for another
        environment.





Ensure that CDP has adequate permissions
Ensure that the role that you are using for the Azure credential has the permissions mentioned
    in Role definition 2: Allows CDP to access and use only a single
      existing resource group and create private endpoints. 


Related informationManage network policies for private endpoints