Cluster planning checklistCloudera Docs
Cluster planning checklist
When creating a production cluster, refer to this checklist in order to ensure that
    you’ve performed all prerequisite steps required for cluster deployment. 
The following table includes a list of available cluster options and prerequisites
      required for using each option. Depending on where you are at, you can use this checklist as a
      starting point for planning your cluster and understanding cloud provider requirements related
      to specific options.



Option
Description



General Settings


Tags
You can define tags that will be applied to your cluster-related resources
                (such as VMs) on your cloud provider account. If you would like to use
                  tags, make sure to prepare a list of tags that meet your organization’s
                  requirements as well as the cloud provider’s requirements. For more information,
                  refer to Tags.


Image catalog


Image catalog

When creating a DataHub cluster, you can use default prewarmed images, or you can
                  customize a default image. If you would like to use custom images, you should
                  prepare the images and an image catalog, and then register the image catalog prior
                  to cluster creation. 



Network and availability


Subnet
Your cluster is automatically provisioned within the network selected during
                environment creation. There are two possibilities as far as subnets are
                  concerned:
If your network includes a single subnet, your cluster is automatically
                    provisioned into that subnet. 
During cluster creation you can select the subnet(s) in which your cluster
                    should be provisioned. 

If you would like to deploy your Data Hub in multiple availability zones,
                    you should select multiple subnets.



Hardware and compute


EC2 instances
Prior to creating a cluster, determine which instance type you would like to
                use for each host group. Data Hub supports all instance types that have more than 16
                GB RAM. If using cluster definitions, default instance types are suggested.
                Similarly, for custom deployment, there are defaults provided.


Storage options
Prior to creating a cluster, determine the storage type, a number of storage
                volumes attached per instance, and the volume size that you would like to use for
                each host group.Supported storage types vary by region,
                  including:
Ephemeral
Magnetic
General purpose
SSD
For more information about these options refer to Amazon EC2 Instance Store in AWS
                  documentation.Note that attaching custom disks is not supported.


Encryption
AWSBy default, Data Hubs use the same default key
                from Amazon’s KMS or CMK as the parent environment but you have an option to pass a
                different CMK during Data Hub creation. For more information about
                  configuring encryption on an environment level, refer to Adding a customer managed encryption key to a CDP
                    environment running on AWS. For more information about configuring a CMK
                  for a specific Data Hub. refer to EBS Encryption on
                  AWS.AzureBy default, local Data Hub disks attached to
                  Azure VMs and the PostgreSQL server instance used by the Data Lake and Data Hubs
                  are encrypted with server-side encryption (SSE) using Platform Managed Keys (PMK),
                  but you can optionally configure SSE with Customer Managed Keys (CMK). This can
                  only be configured on an environment level. For more information, refer to Adding a customer managed encryption key for
                    Azure.


Cluster extensions


Recipes
You can optionally create and run scripts (called "recipes") that perform
                specific tasks on all nodes of a given host group. If you would like to use recipes,
                you should prepare them prior to creating a cluster. For more information, refer to
                  Recipes.


Custom properties
When creating a cluster, it is possible to include a list of custom properties
                and set them to specific values. If you would like to set custom properties, prior
                to cluster creation you should prepare a JSON file listing these properties. For
                more information, refer to Custom Properties.




