




Streams Messaging Manager and Apache NiFi: Documentation








Cloudera Docs









Streams Messaging Manager and Apache NiFi


Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) is an operations monitoring and management
tool that provides end-to-end visibility in an enterprise Apache Kafka
environment. SMM is used with Schema Registry, which provides a shared repository 
of schemas that allows applications to flexibly interact with each other.
You can use Apache NiFi to develop, manage, and monitor data flows. 
The Apache NiFi Registry provides a central location for the storage and management of 
shared data flow resources across more than one instance of Apache NiFi.



SMM and Schema Registry
Managing Alert Policies
How to use Streams Messaging Manager to create, modify, and monitor alert policies and alerts.

Managing Topics
How to create, moidify, and delete Kafka topics.     

Monitoring End to End Latency
Describes how you can use Streams Messaging Manager to monitor end-to-end latency in topics. Use the latency feature to verify whether consumers are consuming the messages produced in a topic within the time SLA, identify the slow consuming applications that might occur due to an external or process bottleneck, and verify whether the consumers are consuming all the messages.

Using Schema Registry
How to use Schema Registry.

Developing Apache Kafka Applications
Learn more about Kafka producers and their most important configuration properties.          

Monitoring Kafka Clusters
How to use Streams Messaging Manager to monitor Apache Kafka clusters, producers, topics, brokers, and consumers.

Monitoring Kafka Cluster Replications
Describes how you can use Streams Replication Manager to implement cross-cluster Kafka topic replication in Streams Messaging Manager.                     
  

Apache NiFi and NiFi Registry
Using Apache NiFi
Apache NiFi is a dataflow system based on the concepts of flow-based programming. It supports powerful and scalable directed graphs of data routing, transformation, and system mediation logic.

Using Apache NiFi Registry
How to use the NiFi Registry to manage DataFlow versions.          
  
 
 

















