Store HBase snapshots on Amazon S3Cloudera Docs
Store HBase snapshots on Amazon S3
HBase snapshots can be stored on the cloud storage service Amazon S3.
importantWhen HBase snapshots are stored on, or restored
            from, Amazon S3, a MapReduce (MRv2) job is created to copy the HBase table data and
            metadata. The YARN service must be running on your Cloudera Manager cluster to use this
            feature.To configure HBase to store snapshots on Amazon S3, you must have the
         following information:
The access key ID for your
               Amazon S3 account.
The secret access key for your
               Amazon S3 account.
The path to the directory in Amazon S3 where you want your HBase
               snapshots to be stored.


You can improve the transfer of large snapshots to Amazon S3 by increasing the number of
        nodes due to throughput limitations of EC2 on a per node basis.

Configure HBase in Cloudera Manager to store snapshots in Amazon S3You must configure HBase before you can store snapshots on Amazon S3. Configure the dynamic resource pool used for exporting and importing snapshots in Amazon S3Dynamic resource pools are used to control the resources available for MapReduce jobs         created for HBase snapshots on Amazon S3. By default, MapReduce jobs run against the default         dynamic resource pool.HBase snapshots on Amazon S3 with Kerberos enabled YARN should by default allow the hbase user to run MapReduce jobs         even when Kerberos is enabled.Manage HBase snapshots on Amazon S3 in Cloudera Manager You can manage your snaphots stored on Amazon S3 using Cloudera Manager. Delete HBase snapshots from Amazon S3You can delete a snapshot stored on Amazon S3 using Cloudera Manager. Restore an HBase snapshot from Amazon S3You can restore a snapshot that you have stored on Amazon S3.Restore an HBase snapshot from Amazon S3 with a new nameBy restoring an HBase snapshot stored in Amazon S3 with a new name, you clone the         table without affecting the existing table in HBase. Manage Policies for HBase snapshots in Amazon S3You can configure policies to automatically create snapshots of HBase tables on an     hourly, daily, weekly, monthly or yearly basis. Snapshot policies for HBase snapshots stored in     Amazon S3 are configured using the same procedures as for local HBase snapshots.Parent topic: Configuring HBase snapshots