Configure HBase in Cloudera Manager to store snapshots in Amazon S3Cloudera Docs
Configure HBase in Cloudera Manager to store snapshots in Amazon S3
You must configure HBase before you can store snapshots on Amazon S3. 
Perform the following steps in Cloudera Manager

Open the HBase service page.

Scope > HBASE
                            (Service-Wide)

Select Category > Backup.

Type S3 in the Search
                    box.

Enter your Amazon S3 access key ID in the field AWS S3 access key ID
                        for remote snapshots.

Enter your Amazon S3 secret access key in the field AWS S3 secret
                        access key for remote snapshots.

importantIf Amazon S3 access keys are rotated, the Cloudera
                        Manager server must be restarted.


Enter the path to the location in Amazon S3 where your HBase snapshots will be
                    stored in the field Amazon S3 Path for Remote
                        Snapshots.

warningDo not use the Amazon S3 location defined by the path
                        entered in Amazon S3 Path for Remote
                            Snapshots for any other purpose, or directly add or delete content
                        there. Doing so risks corrupting the metadata associated with the HBase
                        snapshots stored there. Use this path and Amazon S3 location only through
                        Cloudera Manager, and only for managing HBase snapshots.


In a terminal window, log in to your Cloudera Manager cluster at the command
                    line and create a /user/hbase
                    directory in HDFS. Change the owner of the directory to hbase.

For example:

hdfs dfs -mkdir /user/hbase
hdfs dfs -chown hbase /user/hbase
noteAmazon S3 has default rate limitation per prefix per bucket. The
                        throughput can be limited to 3500 requests per second. Consider to use
                        different prefixes on S3 per table namespace, or table if any of the
                        following applies:
large number of tables
tables with a large number of store files or
                                regions
frequent snapshot policy




Parent topic: Store HBase snapshots on Amazon S3