About HBase snapshotsCloudera Docs
About HBase snapshots
HBase snapshots allow you to clone a table without making data copies, and with
      minimal impact on RegionServers. Exporting the table to another cluster does not have any
      impact on the RegionServers.
In previous HBase releases, the only way to a back up or to clone a
          table was to use CopyTable or
            ExportTable, or to copy all the
            hfiles in HDFS after disabling the table. These
          methods have disadvantages:


CopyTable and ExportTable can degrade RegionServer
            performance.
Disabling the table means no reads or writes; this is usually unacceptable.

HBase snapshots allow you to clone a table without making data
          copies, and with minimal impact on RegionServers. Exporting the table
          to another cluster does not have any impact on the RegionServers.
Use Cases

Recovery from user or application errors
Useful because it may be some time before the database
                     administrator notices the error.note
The database administrator needs to schedule the
                           intervals at which to take and delete snapshots. Use a script or
                           management tool; HBase does not have this functionality.


The database administrator may want to save a snapshot
                     before a major application upgrade or change.note
Snapshots are not primarily used for system upgrade
                           protection because they do not roll back binaries, and would not
                           necessarily prevent bugs or errors in the system or the upgrade.



Recovery cases:
Roll back to previous snapshot and merge in reverted
                           data.
View previous snapshots and selectively merge them
                           into production.



Backup
Capture a copy of the database and store it outside HBase
                  for disaster recovery.
Capture previous versions of data for compliance,
                  regulation, and archiving.
Export from a snapshot on a live system provides a more
                  consistent view of HBase than CopyTable and
                    ExportTable.


Audit or report view of data at a specific time
Capture monthly data for compliance.
Use for end-of-day/month/quarter reports.


Application testing
Test schema or application changes on similar production
                  data from a snapshot and then discard.For example: 
Take a snapshot.
Create a new table from the snapshot content (schema
                        and data)
Manipulate the new table by changing the schema,
                        adding and removing rows, and so on. The original table,
                        the snapshot, and the new table remain independent of
                        each other.





Offload work
Capture, copy, and restore data to another site
Export data to another cluster




Where Snapshots Are Stored
Snapshot metadata is stored in the .hbase_snapshot
            directory under the hbase root directory
              (/hbase/.hbase-snapshot). Each snapshot has its
            own directory that includes all the references to the
              hfiles, logs, and metadata needed to restore the
            table.

hfiles required by the snapshot are in the
              /hbase/data/<namespace>/<tableName>/<regionName>/<familyName>/
            location if the table is still using them; otherwise, they are in
              /hbase/.archive/<namespace>/<tableName>/<regionName>/<familyName>/.

Zero-Copy Restore and Clone Table
From a snapshot, you can create a new table (clone
            operation) or restore the original table. These two operations do
            not involve data copies; instead, a link is created to point to the
            original hfiles.
Changes to a cloned or restored table do not affect the snapshot or (in case of
            a clone) the original table.
To clone a table to another cluster, you export the snapshot to the
            other cluster and then run the clone
            operation; see Exporting a snapshot to another cluster.

Reverting to a Previous HBase Version
Snapshots do not affect HBase backward compatibility if they are
            not used.
If you  use snapshots, backward compatibility is affected as
            follows:

If you only take snapshots, you can still revert to a previous
              HBase version.
If you use restore or clone,
              you cannot revert to a previous version unless the cloned or
              restored tables have no links. Links cannot be detected
              automatically; you would need to inspect the file system
              manually.


Storage Considerations
Because hfiles are immutable, a snapshot consists
            of a reference to the files in the table at the moment the snapshot
            is taken. No copies of the data are made during the snapshot
            operation, but copies may be made when a compaction or deletion is
            triggered. In this case, if a snapshot has a reference to the files
            to be removed, the files are moved to an archive folder, instead of
            being deleted. This allows the snapshot to be restored in full.
Because no copies are performed, multiple snapshots share the same
              hfiles, butfor tables with lots of updates, and
            compactions, each snapshot could have a different set of
              hfiles.


Parent topic: Configuring HBase snapshots