PrerequisitesCloudera Docs
Prerequisites
Learn how to collect the information you need to deploy the Kafka to Kudu ReadyFlow, and
  meet other prerequisites.
For your data ingest source


You have created a Streams Messaging cluster in CDP Public Cloud to host
              your Schema Registry.
For information on how to create a Streams Messaging
              cluster, see Setting up your Streams Messaging Cluster.


You have created at least one Kafka topic.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments and select
                  your environment.
Select your Streams Messaging cluster.
Click on the Streams Messaging Manager icon.
Navigate to the Topics page.
Click Add New and provide the following information:
Topic name
Number of partitions
Level of availability
Cleanup policy
tip
SMM has automatically set Kafka topic configuration parameters. To manually
                      adjust them, click Advanced.

Click Save.




You have created a schema for your data and have uploaded it to the Schema Registry
              in the Streams Messaging cluster.
For information on how to create a new schema, see
                Creating a new schema. For example:
              
{
   "type":"record",
   "name":"SensorReading",
   "namespace":"com.cloudera.example",
   "doc":"This is a sample sensor reading",
   "fields":[
      {
         "name":"sensor_id",
         "doc":"Sensor identification number.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_ts",
         "doc":"Timestamp of the collected readings.",
         "type":"long"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_0",
         "doc":"Reading #0.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_1",
         "doc":"Reading #1.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_2",
         "doc":"Reading #2.",
         "type":"int"
      },
      {
         "name":"sensor_3",
         "doc":"Reading #3.",
         "type":"int"
      }
   ]
}



You have the Schema Registry Host Name.


From the Management Console, go to
                    Data Hub Clusters and select the Streams Messaging
                  cluster you are using.
Navigate to the Hardware tab to locate the Master
                  Node FQDN. Schema Registry is always running on the Master node, so copy the
                  Master node FQDN.




You have the Kafka broker end points.


From the Management Console, click
                    Data Hub Clusters.
Select the Streams Messaging cluster from which you want to ingest
                  data. 
Click the Hardware tab.
Note the Kafka Broker FQDNs for each node in your cluster. 
Construct your Kafka Broker Endpoints by using the FQDN and Port
                  number 9093 separated by a colon. Separate endpoints by a comma. For example:
                    broker1.fqdn:9093,broker2.fqdn:9093,broker3.fqdn:9093Kafka
                    broker FQDNs are listed under the Core_broker
                  section.




You have the Kafka Consumer Group ID.
This ID is defined by the user. Pick an ID and then
              create a Ranger policy for it. Use the ID when deploying the flow in DataFlow.


You have assigned the CDP Workload User policies to access the consumer group ID and
              topic.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select
                  the environment where you have created your cluster.
Select Ranger. You are redirected to the Ranger
                    Service Manager page. 
Select your Streams Messaging cluster under the Kafka
                  folder. 
Create a policy to enable your Workload User to access the Kafka source topic. 
On the Create Policy page, give the policy a name, select
                    topic from the drop-down list, add the user, and assign
                  the Consume permission.
Create another policy to give your Workload User access to the
                  consumer group ID.
On the Create Policy page, give the policy a name, select
                    consumergroup from the drop-down list, add the user, and
                  assign the Consume permission.




You have assigned the CDP Workload User read-access to the schema.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select
                  the environment where you have created your cluster.
Select Ranger. You are redirected to the Ranger
                    Service Manager page. 
Select your Streams Messaging cluster under the Schema
                    Registry folder. 
Click Add New Policy. 
On the Create Policy page, give the policy a name, specify
                  the schema details, add the user, and assign the Read
                  permission.





For DataFlow


You have enabled DataFlow for an environment.
For information on how to enable DataFlow for an
              environment, see Enabling DataFlow for an Environment.


You have created a Machine User to use as the CDP Workload User.

You have given the CDP Workload User the
              EnvironmentUser role.

From the Management Console, go to the environment for
                  which DataFlow is enabled.
From the Actions drop down, click
                    Manage Access.
Identify the user you want to use as a Workload User.note
The CDP Workload User can be a machine user or your own user name. It is best
                      practice to create a dedicated Machine user for this.

Give that user EnvironmentUser role.



You have synchronized your user to the CDP Public Cloud environment that you enabled
              for DataFlow.
For information on how to synchronize your user to
              FreeIPA, see Performing User Sync.

You have granted your CDP user the
              DFCatalogAdmin and DFFlowAdmin roles to
            enable your user to add the ReadyFlow to the Catalog and deploy the flow definition.

Give a user permission to add the ReadyFlow to the
                    Catalog.
From the Management Console, click User
                        Management.
Enter the name of the user or group you wish to authorize in the
                        Search field.
Select the user or group from the list that displays.
Click Roles > Update Roles.
From Update Roles, select
                        DFCatalogAdmin and click
                        Update.noteIf the ReadyFlow
                        is already in the Catalog, then you can give your user just the
                          DFCatalogViewer role.

Give your user or group permission to deploy flow definitions.
From the Management Console, click
                        Environments to display the Environment
                        List page.
Select the environment to which you want your user or group to deploy flow
                      definitions.
Click Actions > Manage Access to display the Environment Access
                      page.
Enter the name of your user or group you wish to authorize in the
                        Search field.
Select your user or group and click Update
                      Roles.
Select DFFlowAdmin from the list of roles.
Click Update Roles.





For your data ingest target


You have a Real-Time Data Mart cluster running Kudu, Impala, and Hue in the same
            environment for which DataFlow has been enabled.


You have the Kudu Master hostnames.


From Management Console, click Data
                  Hub Clusters.
Select the Real-Time Data Mart cluster to which you want to ingest data
                into. 
Click the Hardware tab.
Copy the FQDN for each Kudu Master.




You have created the Kudu table that you want to ingest data into. 


Navigate to your Real Time Data Mart cluster and click Hue
                from the Services pane.
Click the Tables icon on the left pane.
Select the default database, and click + New to create a
                new table.
In the Type field, select Manually
                and click Next.
Provide the table Name, Format, Primary keys, and any partitions.
Click Submit. The newly created table displays in the
                default database Tables pane.
Check the Kudu UI Tables tab for the name of the table you
                created. You will need this table name when you use the DataFlow Deployment wizard
                to deploy the Kafka to Kudu ReadyFlow.




You have assigned permissions in Ranger to enable the CDP Workload User to access the
            Kudu table that you want to ingest data into.


From the base cluster on CDP Public Cloud, select
                Ranger.
Select your Real Time Data Mart cluster from the Kudu
                folder.
Click Add New Policy policy. 
On the Create Policy page, enter the Kudu table name in the
                  topic field.
Add the CDP Workload User in the Select User field.
Add the Insert and Select
                permissions in the Permissions field.
Click Save.






Related conceptsList of required configuration parameters for the Kafka to Kudu ReadyFlow