Generating an API keyCloudera Docs
Generating an API key
If you have enabled authentication, then you need an API key to call a model. If you are
  not a collaborator on a particular project, then you cannot access the models within that project
  using the API key that you generate. You need to be added as a collaborator by the admin or the
  owner of the project to use the API key to access a model.
There are two types of API keys used in Cloudera Machine
     Learning:

API Key: These are used to authenticate requests to a model. You can
       choose the expiration period and delete them when no longer needed.


Legacy API Key: This is used in the CDSW-specific internal APIs for CLI
       automation. This can’t be deleted and neither does it expire. This API Key is not required
       when sending requests to a model.

You can generate more than one API keys to use with your model, depending on the number
   of clients that you are using to call the models.

Sign in to Cloudera Machine Learning. 

Click Settings from the left navigation pane.

On the User Settings page, click the API Keys
     tab. 

Select an expiry date for the Model API Key, and click Create API
      keys.
An API key is generated along with a Key ID.
If you do not specify an expiry date, then the generated key is active for one year from
     the current date, or for the duration set by the Administrator. If you specify an expiration
     date that exceeds the duration value set by the Administrator, you will get an error. The
     Administrator can set the default duration value at Admin > Security > Default API keys expiration in days

note

The API key is private and ephemeral. Copy the key and the corresponding key ID
        on to a secure location for future use before refreshing or leaving the page. If you miss
        storing the key, then you can generate another key.
You can delete the API keys that have expired or no longer in use. It can take
        up to five minutes by the system to take effect.




To test the API key:


Navigate to your project and click Models from the left navigation
       pane.


On the Overview page, paste the API key in the API key field that
       you had generated in the previous step and click Test.
The test results, along with the HTTP response code and the Replica ID are displayed in
       the Results table.
If the test fails and you see the following message, then you must get added as a
       collaborator on the respective project by the admin or the creator of the project:
       "User APikey not authorized to access model": "Check APIKEY permissions or model authentication permissions"





Parent topic: API Key for Models