Guidelines for database upkeepCloudera Docs
Guidelines for database upkeep
There are database upkeep guidelines for Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) that you'll
    need to consider.
note Despite the end of service for mySQL v8.0.28 in June 2023, you can
      continue using CDE with mySQL v8.0.28. Although mySQL will continue to work with your
      databases after end of service, you will not have troubleshooting support will not be
      available. Therefore, it is recommended that you upgrade to a supported version of
      mySQL.
Upgrade mySQL for AWS
Upgrade mySQL for AWS to ensure you are using a supported version to work with CDE.noteIf you are using an in-place upgrade, your mySQL version will also
          be updated.

In the AWS console, navigate to RDS > cluster-id > Modify.
Select the version that you want to upgrade from the Database engine version drop-down
          list.
Click Continue.
Click Apply Immediately to apply changes.


Increasing database size on Azure
Azure databases can fill up with logs and entries with every job that runs in CDE Virtual
        Clusters. When the database fills up, increase the size of your database.
Ensure that there are no jobs running.
Go to the Azure Portal.
Locate the Azure SQL database named <cluster id>, for example,
            cluster-2cmmds8q.
Navigate to the Pricing Tier section.
Move the slider to the desired value.noteThe slider cannot be
              reduced.
Click OK and wait for the scaling to complete.
Resume running your jobs.


Increasing database size on Amazon Web Services
Amazon Web Services (AWS) databases can fill up with logs and entries with every job that
        runs in CDE Virtual Clusters. When the database fills up, increase the size of your
          database.
Go to the AWS Console.
Navigate to the RDS Service page.
Click Databases and use the filter to find your cluster id, for
            instance, cluster-w8d65nxp.
Select the target database.
In the Database homepage in the top right-hand corner, click
              Modify.
Scroll down to the database size settings and set the Allocated Storage
              Property to the desired value.
Click Continue.
Set the desired timeframe for maintenance.
Click Continue and wait for the database status to become
            available.
Resume running your jobs.



