Accessing Data Hub cluster via SSHCloudera Docs
Accessing Data Hub cluster via SSH
You can use SSH to access cluster nodes via a command line client.



Method
Credentials



Root SSH access to cluster VMs
Required role: NoneCDP administrators can access cluster
                nodes as cloudbreak user with the SSH key provided during
                environment creation.
                  On
                    Mac OS, you can use the following syntax to SSH to the
                  VM:ssh -i "privatekey.pem" cloudbreak@publicIPFor
                  example:ssh -i "testkey-kp.pem" cloudbreak@p90.101.0.132On
                    Windows, you can access your cluster via SSH by using an SSH client such
                  as PuTTY. For more information, refer to How
                    to use PuTTY on Windows.


Non-root SSH access to cluster VMs
Required role: Any user who has access to the environment
                    (EnvironmentUser, DataSteward, and EnvironmentAdmin) can access Data Hubs
                  via SSH. All authorized users can access cluster nodes via SSH using either a
                private key that is paired with the user's public key, or with their workload user
                name and workload password. For SSH access through a workload user name and
                    password:When accessing CDP for the first time, you must set a
                  workload password. The password also needs to be reset each time you are added to
                  a new environment. For more information about workload passwords and
                  instructions for setting/resetting it, refer to Set or Reset Workload Password.For
                  instructions on how to find your workload user name, refer to Finding Your Workload User Name.On
                    Mac OS, you can use the following syntax to SSH to the
                  VM:$ ssh workload-user@publicIPFor
                  example:$ ssh jsmith@190.101.0.132To SSH to a
                    cluster using the private key file that pairs with the public key associated
                    with a user, use the ssh utility:
$ ssh -i path-to-private-key-file user@nodeIPaddress
For example:
$ ssh -i ~/.ssh/my-private.key jsmith@192.12.141.12
On Windows, you can access your cluster via SSH by using an SSH client
                  such as PuTTY. For more information, refer to How
                    to use PuTTY on Windows.




