Accessing Cloudera Manager, cluster UIs, and endpointsCloudera Docs
Accessing Cloudera Manager, cluster UIs, and endpoints
Cluster UIs and endpoints can be accessed from cluster details. 
Required role:
EnvironmentUser at the scope of the environment where the Data Hub is running, but
      Cloudera Manager access is read-only. EnvironmentAdmin grants a limited administrator
      role in Cloudera Manager. DatahubAdmin or the Owner of the Data Hub can access
      cluster details, but access to Cloudera Manager is read-only.
To access cluster UIs and endpoints navigate to the to the Data Hub Clusters service
         and click the tile for your cluster. This opens the cluster details page, which lists the
         URLs  for the cluster UIs and endpoints:

Click the URL for the service that you would like to access and you will be logged in
         automatically with your CDP credentials. All of the UIs and endpoints are accessible via
         the Knox gateway. The URLs listed connect you to a chosen service via Knox, and Knox
         securely passes your CDP
         credentials.
Credentials to use for logging in
The following table lists the credentials to use to access clusters:
            


Method
URL
Credentials



Cloudera Manager web UI
Access from the URL listed in cluster details > Services
                        section.
You do not need to provide any credentials. You are automatically logged
                        in with your CDP credentials. When accessing a Data Hub cluster via Cloudera
                        Manager, you assume the Configurator role.
                        


All cluster web UIs 
Access from the URLs listed in cluster details.
You do not need to provide any credentials. You are automatically logged
                        in with your CDP credentials. 


Data Analytics Studio (DAS)
Access from the URLs listed in cluster details.
Access DAS with your workload user name and workload password. When
                           accessing CDP for the first time, you must set a workload password. For more
                           instructions on how to set your workload password, refer to Set or reset workload
                           password.For instructions on how to find your workload user
                           name, refer to Finding your workload user
                           name.


All cluster endpoints
Access by using the API endpoint listed in cluster details >
                  Endpoints tab.
Access all cluster API endpoints (such as JDBC and ODBC) with your
                workload user name and workload password. When accessing CDP for the first time,
                  you must set a workload password. For more instructions on how to set your
                  workload password, refer to Set or reset workload password.For
                  instructions on how to find your workload user name, refer to Finding your workload user name.For
                  information on how to set up a connection from a business intelligence tool such
                  as Tableau, refer to Configuring JDBC for Impala and Configuring ODBC for Impala.



Security exception

      The first time you access the UIs, your browser will attempt to confirm that the SSL
        Certificate is valid. Since CDP automatically generates a certificate with self-signed CA,
        your browser will warn you about an untrusted connection and ask you to confirm a security
        exception. Depending on your browser, perform the steps below to proceed:

Browser
Steps



Firefox
Click Advanced > Click Add Exception… > Click Confirm
                    Security Exception


Safari
Click Continue


Chrome
Click Advanced > Click Proceed…




