Understanding Data Hub cluster detailsCloudera Docs
Understanding Data Hub cluster details
To access information about Data Hub
      clusters, navigate to the Data Hub Clusters service or to the Management Console
      service > Data Hub Clusters.
Each cluster is represented by a tile that includes basic information about the
         cluster:

Click the cluster tile to display more information: 

The summary bar includes the following information:


Item
Description



Status
Current cluster status. When a cluster is healthy, the status is
                           Running.


Nodes
The current number of cluster nodes.


Created at
The date and time when the cluster was created. The format is MM/DD/YY,
                        Time AM/PM Timezone. For example: 06/20/19, 7:56 AM PDT.


Cluster Template
The name of the cluster template used to create the cluster.
                        


Environment Details
You can find information about the cluster cloud provider environment under Environment
            Details: 


Item
Description



Cloud Provider
The logo of the cloud provider on which the cluster is running.


Name 
The name of the environment used to create the cluster.


Data Lake
The name of a Data Lake to which the cluster is attached.


Credential
The name of the credential used to create the cluster.


Region
The region in which the cluster is running in the cloud provider
                        infrastructure.


Availability Zone
The availability zone within the region in which the cluster is
                        running.



Services
In the Services section, you will find links to cluster UIs. The exact content depends
            on what components are running on your cluster.

Cloudera Manager Info
The Cloudera Manager Info section provides the following information:

Item
Description



CM URL
Link to the Cloudera Manager web UI.


CM Version
The Cloudera Manager version which the cluster is currently
                           running.


Platform Version
The Cloudera Runtime version which the cluster is currently
                           running.



Event History and other tabs
Under Cloudera Manager, the Event History tab is displayed by default. You can
            also click the other tabs to view additional cluster information. 


Item
Description



Event History
Shows events logged for the cluster, with the most recent event at the
                        top. The  Download option allows you to download the event
                        history.


Hardware
This section includes information about your cluster instances: instance
                        names, instance IDs, instance types, their status, fully qualified domain
                        names (FQDNs), and private and public IPs. If you click on the , you can
                        access more information about the instance, storage, image, and packages
                        installed on the image. 


Tags
This section lists keys and values of the user-defined tags, in the same
                        order as you added them.


Endpoints
This section includes the endpoints for various cluster servces.
                     


Recipes
This section includes recipe-related information. For each recipe, you
                        can see the host group on which a recipe was executed, recipe name, and
                        recipe type. 


Repository Details
This section includes Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime repository
                        information, as you provided when creating a cluster.


Image Details
This section includes information about the prewarmed or base image that
                        was used for the cluster nodes.


Network
This section includes information about the names of the network and
                        subnet in which the cluster is running and the links to related cloud
                        provider console.


Cloud Storage 
This section provides information about the base storage locations used for
                YARN and Zeppelin.


Database
This section provides information about any external managed database you might
                have created for the cluster.


Telemetry
This section provides information about logging, metering, cluster log
                collection, and other analytics.



Actions Menu
Click Show Cluster Template on the Actions menu to review the
            template used in cluster creation. Click Show CLI Command to
            review the CDP CLI command used to create the cluster (which you can copy to create
            similar clusters via the CDP CLI). Select Manage Access to manage
            access to the cluster.
You can also perform some basic Data Hub management functions from the Actions menu, such
            as resizing, retrying, and repairing the cluster, as well renewing the host
            certificate.


