Restoring Cloudera Data Engineering jobs from backupCloudera Docs
Restoring Cloudera Data Engineering jobs from backup
You can restore Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) jobs and
    associated resources from a backup ZIP file.
noteThe backup and restore functionality does not include Airflow
      metadata related to connections and variable definitions. Those must be manually recreated in
      the new service.
CDE CLICDE APIWeb UI
Before you begin

You must have a valid backup file to restore from. For
            instructions on backing up CDE jobs, see  Backing up Cloudera Data
                Engineering jobs.
Download and configure the CDE CLI.

Steps

Run the cde backup restore command to restore a backup file to the
            virtual cluster your CDE CLI is configured to interact with. Use the
              --duplicate-handling flag to select the policy for handling duplicate
            jobs. The possible values are as follows:
error
Return an error if there are duplicate job names, and abort the restore
                  operation. This is the default behavior.
rename
If a job name in the backup conflicts with an existing job, keep the existing
                  job and rename the restored job by appending a numerical identifier to the job
                  name.
keep-original
If a job name in the backup conflicts with an existing job, keep the existing
                  job and do not restore the backed up job.
For
              example:cde backup restore --local-path archive-2021-11-10T01:24:06.zip --duplicate-handling rename
--remote-path
If you're using a remote storage, use this flag for relative remote storage path
                  of the backup to be restored. This will restore the archive in the remote object
                  store. The path should include a filename and be relative to dir
                  /dex/backup/.
Example restore for remote
            storage:./cde backup restore --remote-path test/archive.zip

# the output is similar to list-archive

Result
Validate that the jobs and resources were restored by running
            cde job list and cde resource
          list.

noteSome of the command examples provided utilize jq to parse the JSON output and make it
          more readable.
Before you begin

You must have a valid backup file to restore from. For
            instructions on backing up CDE jobs, see  Backing up Cloudera Data
                Engineering jobs.
Request an access token and save it as an environment variable to
            use in API calls. For instructions, see  Getting a Cloudera Data Engineering
                API access token.

Steps

 Determine the API URL for the virtual cluster that you want to restore the jobs and
            resources to: 
In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the
                  Data Engineering tile. The CDE Home
                page displays.
Click Administration on the left
                navigation menu. The Administration page displays.
In the Services column, select the
                service containing the virtual cluster where you want to restore the job. Then, in
                the Virtual Clusters column, click the Cluster
                  Details icon.
Copy the JOBS API URL, and set
                it as an environment variable. For example:
                export CDE_JOBS_API="https://pmjkrgn5.cde-czlmkz4y.na-01.xvp2-7p8o.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1"

Restore jobs from the backup file by uploading the backup file to
            the /admin/import endpoint. You can choose how to
            handle duplicate job names using the
                duplicatehandling=<policy>
            parameter. Options are:
error
Return an error if there are duplicate job names, and abort
                  the restore operation.
rename
If a job name in the backup conflicts with an existing job,
                  keep the existing job and rename the restored job by appending
                  a numerical identifier to the job name.
keep-original
If a job name in the backup conflicts with an existing job,
                  keep the existing job and do not restore the backed up
                  job.
For example, to restore a backup named cde-etl-jobs-backup.zip using the
                rename duplicate handling policy:curl -k \
-H "Authorization: Bearer ${CDE_TOKEN}" \
-X POST "${CDE_JOBS_API}/admin/import" \
-H "accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: multipart/form-data" \
-F "file=@/path/to/cde-etl-jobs-backup.zip;type=application/zip" \
-F duplicatehandling=rename \
| jq


Before you begin

You must have a valid backup file to restore from. For
            instructions on backing up CDE jobs, see   Backing up Cloudera Data
                Engineering jobs.

Steps

In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the Data
              Engineering tile. The CDE Home page displays.
Click Jobs in the left navigation menu. The
              Jobs page displays.
From the drop-down in the upper left-hand corner, select the Virtual
              Cluster that you want to restore jobs to.
Click  at the top right, and then click Restore
              Jobs.
Click Choose a zip file.
Browse to the ZIP file containing the backup of jobs and resources you want to
            restore, and then click Open.
Click Select to restore the backup.

Result
The jobs and resources from the backup file are restored using the
            rename duplicate handling policy. If a job name in
          the backup conflicts with an existing job, the restore operation keeps
          the existing job and renames the restored job by appending a numerical
          identifier to the job name.


