Tuning S3A UploadsCloudera Docs
Tuning S3A Uploads
When data is written to S3, it is buffered locally and then uploaded in
    multi-Megabyte blocks, with the final upload taking place as the file is closed.

The following major configuration options are available for the S3A block upload options.
        These are used whenever data is written to S3.


Parameter
Default Value
Description




fs.s3a.multipart.size

100M
Defines the size (in bytes) of the blocks into which the upload or copy
                operations will be split up. A suffix from the set {K,M,G,T,P} may be used to scale
                the numeric value. 



fs.s3a.fast.upload.active.blocks

8
Defines the maximum number of blocks a single output stream can have active
                uploading, or queued to the central FileSystem instance's pool of queued operations.
                This stops a single stream overloading the shared thread pool. 



fs.s3a.buffer.dir

Empty value
A comma separated list of temporary directories use for storing blocks of data
                prior to their being uploaded to S3. When unset (by default), the Hadoop temporary
                directory hadoop.tmp.dir is used. 


fs.s3a.fast.upload.buffer
disk

The fs.s3a.fast.upload.buffer determines the buffering mechanism
                  to use when uploading data.
Allowed values are: disk, array, bytebuffer:

(default) "disk" will use the directories listed in
                          fs.s3a.buffer.dir as the location(s) to save data prior
                        to being uploaded.


"array" uses arrays in the JVM heap.


"bytebuffer" uses off-heap memory within the JVM.


Both "array" and "bytebuffer" will consume memory in a single stream up to the
                  number of blocks set by: fs.s3a.multipart.size *
                    fs.s3a.fast.upload.active.blocks. If using either of these mechanisms,
                  keep this value low.
The total number of threads performing work across all threads is set by
                    fs.s3a.threads.max, with
                    fs.s3a.max.total.tasks values setting the number of queued work
                  items.



Note that:


If the amount of data written to a stream is below that set in
              fs.s3a.multipart.size, the upload takes place after the application
            has written all its data.


The maximum size of a single file in S3 is one thousand blocks, which, for uploads
            means 10000 * fs.s3a.multipart.size. Too A small value of
              fs.s3a.multipart.size can limit the maximum size of files. 


Incremental writes are not visible; the object can only be listed or read when the
            multipart operation completes in the close() call, which will block
            until the upload is completed.



Buffering uploads to disk or RAMs
This is the default buffer mechanism. The amount of data which can be buffered is limited
        by the amount of available disk space.
When fs.s3a.fast.upload.buffer is set to "disk", all data is buffered to
        local hard disks prior to upload. This minimizes the amount of memory consumed, and so
        eliminates heap size as the limiting factor in queued uploads.

Buffering uploads in Byte Buffers
When fs.s3a.fast.upload.buffer is set to "bytebuffer", all data is
        buffered in "direct" ByteBuffers prior to upload. This may be faster than buffering
        to disk in cases such as when disk space is small there may not be much disk space to buffer
        with (for example, when using "tiny" EC2 VMs).
The ByteBuffers are created in the memory of the JVM, but not in the Java Heap itself. The
        amount of data which can be buffered is limited by the Java runtime, the operating system,
        and, for YARN applications, the amount of memory requested for each container.
The slower the upload bandwidth to S3, the greater the risk of running out of memory
        — and so the more care is needed in tuning the upload thread settings to reduce the
        maximum amount of data which can be buffered awaiting upload.

Buffering Uploads with Array Buffers
When fs.s3a.fast.upload.buffer is set to "array", all data is buffered in
        byte arrays in the JVM's heap prior to upload. This may be faster than buffering to
        disk.
The amount of data which can be buffered is limited by the available size of the JVM heap
        heap. The slower the write bandwidth to S3, the greater the risk of heap overflows. This
        risk can be mitigated by tuning the upload thread settings.

Parent topic: Configuring and tuning S3A block upload