Configuring Access to Google Cloud StorageCloudera Docs
Configuring Access to Google Cloud Storage
Access to Google Cloud Storage can be configured separately for each cluster by
            providing the service account email address. 
Access from a cluster to a Google Cloud Storage is possible through a service
            account. Configuring access to Google Cloud Storage involves the following
            steps.
Table 1. Overview of Configuring Access to Google Cloud Storage

Step
Considerations



Creating a service account on Google Cloud Platform and generating a key
                                          associated with it. 


You may need to contact your Google Cloud Platform admin in
                                                      order to complete these steps.
If you already have a service account, you do not need to
                                                            perform these steps as long as you are able to provide the service account
                                                            key. If you have a service account but do not know the service account key,
                                                            you should be able to generate a new key.




Creating a role on Google Cloud Platform with sufficient permissions to access
                                          storage buckets.


You may need to contact your Google Cloud Platform admin in order to
                                                            complete these steps.
This is a one time operation, and the same role can be used across
                                                            different service accounts and storage buckets.
                                                




Modifying permissions of the Google Cloud Storage bucket so that you can access
                                          it by using your service account key.


You may need to contact your Google Cloud Platform admin in
                                                order to complete these steps.

                                                      \You should perform these steps for each bucket that you want to
                                                            access.

                                                      You do not need to perform these steps if your service account
                                                            has project-wide access to all buckets on the account.
                                                




Configuring credentials via Cloudera Manager.


These configuration steps are appropriate for a
                                                  single-user cluster.
Only one configuration per cluster is recommended; that
                                                  is, you should use one service account per
                                                  cluster. If required, it is possible to use
                                                  multiple service accounts with the same cluster;
                                                  in that case, each job-specific configuration
                                                  should be changed to use the desired service
                                                  account. 





Create a GCP Service AccountYou must create a Google Cloud Platform service account and generate an access key             (in the JSON format). If you are using a corporate GCP account, it is likely that only             your GCP admin can perform these steps. Example steps are described below.Create a Custom RoleSpecific permissions are required for the Google Cloud Storage Connector to access             buckets. This set of permissions is the combination of the permissions associated with the             existing Google Cloud IAM Role called              "Storage Object Admin" and the Google                   Cloud IAM Permission called "storage.buckets.get".Modify GCS Bucket PermissionsYou or your GCP admin must set the bucket permissions so that your service account has             access to the bucket that you want to access from the cluster. The IAM role created in the             previous step, is the minimum role required to access the cluster. Example steps are             described below.Configure Access to GCS from Your ClusterAfter obtaining the service account key, perform these steps on your cluster. The             steps below assume that your service account key is called google-access-key.json. If             you choose a different name, make sure to update the commands accordingly.Parent topic: Working with Google Cloud Storage