Configuring Access to S3 on CDP Private Cloud BaseCloudera Docs
Configuring Access to S3 on CDP Private Cloud Base
For Apache Hadoop applications to be able to interact with Amazon S3, they must know
    the AWS access key and the secret key. This can be achieved in three different ways: through 
      configuration properties
      , environment variables, or instance metadata. While the first two
    options can be used when accessing S3 from a cluster running in your own data center. IAM roles,
    which use instance metadata should be used to control access to AWS resources if your cluster is
    running on EC2.
Table 1. Authentication Options for Different Deployment Scenarios

Deployment Scenario
Authentication Options



Cluster runs on EC2
Use IAM roles to control access to your AWS resources. If you configure
                role-based access, instance metadata
                will automatically be used to authenticate.


Cluster runs in your own data center
Use the  configuration properties to
                authenticate. You can set the configuration properties globally or per-bucket. 


Temporary security credentials, also known as
        session credentials, can be issued. These consist of a secret key with a
      limited lifespan, along with a session token, another secret which must be known and used
      alongside the access key. The secret key is never passed to AWS services directly. Instead it
      is used to sign the URL and headers of the HTTP request.
By default, the S3A filesystem client follows the following authentication chain:


The fs.s3a.access.key and fs.s3a.secret.key are looked
          for in the Hadoop configuration properties.


The AWS environment variables are then looked for.


An attempt is made to query the Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service to retrieve
          credentials published to EC2 VMs.



Using Configuration Properties to AuthenticateTo configure authentication with S3, explicitly declare the credentials in a     configuration file such as core-site.xml.Using Per-Bucket Credentials to AuthenticateS3A supports per-bucket configuration, which can be used to declare different     authentication credentials and authentication mechanisms for different buckets.     For example, a bucket s3a://nightly/ used for nightly data can be       configured with a session key.Using Environment Variables to AuthenticateAWS CLI supports authentication through environment variables. These same environment variables will be used by Hadoop     if no configuration properties are set.Parent topic: Configuring Access to S3