Security LevelsCloudera Docs
Security Levels
Securing a cluser requires a layered approach, applying the Pillars of Security to
  ensure data availability, integrity, and confidentiality. CDP Private Cloud offers four security
  levels, as security is no longer optional. 
0 - Non-Secure
The cluster has no configured security. Clusters without security must not be used
    in production environments because they are highly vulnerable to all attacks and exploits.
    Cloudera does not support running an insecure environment.

1 - Minimally Secure
Minimally secure clusters are configured for authentication, authorization, and
    auditing. Authentication is first configured to ensure that users and services can only access
    the cluster after proving their identities. Authorization mechanisms are then applied to assign
    privileges to users and user groups. Auditing procedures keep track of who accesses the
    cluster.

2 - More Secure
Clusters that encrypt their sensitive data are more secure. These systems include a
    variety of steps, including key management, to ensure data is encrypted while in-transit.
Auditing has been set up for data governance to trace any data object’s lineage and
    verify its authenticity. It determines what people are doing with your data, and when they are
    doing it. 

3 - Most Secure
The most secure clusters ensure that all data, both at-rest and in-transit, is
    encrypted and the key management system is fault-tolerant. Auditing mechanisms comply with
    industry, government, and regulatory standards such as PCI, HIPAA, GDPR, and NIST, and extend
    from the cluster to any integrated systems. Cluster administrators are well-trained, the
    security procedures are certified by an expert, and the cluster passes technical reviews.

Figure 1. CDP Security Level Model





Choosing the Sufficient Security Level for Your EnvironmentCloudera will assist you in deciding which security level is best for your   environment.Logical ArchitectureThe components that embody the Pillars of Security and make up the CDP Private Cloud   security architecture are designed to work together logically.