Create a Kafka Topic to Store your EventsCloudera Docs
Create a Kafka Topic to Store your Events
You must create a Kafka topic to store the events that you plan to stream. You can
        create a topic from the command line or the from the SMM UI.

Kafka is a distributed event streaming platform that lets you read, write, store, and
                process events (also called records or messages) across many
                machines.
Example events are payment transactions, geolocation updates from mobile phones,
                shipping orders, sensor measurements from IoT devices or medical equipment, and much
                more. These events are organized and stored in topics. Very simplified, a topic is
                similar to a folder in a filesystem, and the events are the files in that
                folder.
So before you can write your first events, you must create a topic. 



You have installed the trial version of CDP Private Cloud Base and setup the streaming
                    cluster.



To create a Kafka topic from the SMM UI: 


Go to the Cloudera Manager UI  and navigate to the
                                SMM > Topics page.


Click Add New.


Provide the following information:


Topic name
Number of partitions
Level of availability
Cleanup policy




SMM has automatically set Kafka topic configuration parameters. To
                            manually adjust them, click Advanced.


Click Save when done.



To create a Kafka topic from the command line: 


Open a terminal session and run: 

$ bin/kafka-topics.sh --create --topic quickstart-events --bootstrap-server localhost:9092




Run the kafka-topics.sh command without any arguments
                            to display usage information.


You can view details such as the partition count of the new
                            topic:

$ bin/kafka-topics.sh --describe --topic quickstart-events --bootstrap-server localhost:9092

Topic:quickstart-events  PartitionCount:1    ReplicationFactor:1 Configs:
    Topic: quickstart-events Partition: 0    Leader: 0   Replicas: 0 Isr: 0



For more Kafka command-line tools, see Kafka Command Line
                    Tools.

Write a few events into the topic.

Related informationKafka Command Line ToolsParent topic: Getting Started on your Streams Cluster