Set Up a Streaming ClusterCloudera Docs
Set Up a Streaming Cluster
After completing the Add Cluster - Installation wizard, the
            Add Cluster - Configuration wizard automatically starts. Here you
        will select the streaming services, specify the host to run each service on, test the
        connection to the database, and run the command to set up your cluster. 



You have installed Cloudera Manager.
You have installed Cloudera Runtime.




Verify you are on the Add Cluster - Configuration page pf
                    the Cloudera Manager UI.
The list of steps on the left let you know where you are in the
                    workflow.

Verify that you are on the Select Services section. 

Select the Custom Services option.
A list of services appear. 



Scroll through the list and select the following services: 


Cruise Control
Kafka
Schema Registry
Streams Messaging Manager
ZooKeeper






Click Continue. 
The Assign Roles section appears with suggested role
                    assignments for the hosts in your cluster. 



In the Kafka Broker field, click Select
                        hosts.

Select all hosts for Kafka Broker and click OK.






Assign Cruise Control, Schema Registry, and SMM to separate hosts.

Assign ZooKeeper to all hosts.
ZooKeeper must be on an odd number of hosts. 

Click View By Host to see the host and role pairing. 
The View By Host window appears. 




Verify that the services are on the right hosts and click
                        Close to close the View By Host
                    window.

Back on the Assign Roles section, click
                        Continue. 
The Setup Database section appears with pre-populated
                    database names and passwords. 



Click Test Connection to validate the settings.

After verifying that each connection is successful, click
                        Continue. 





The Review Changes section appears with default and
                    suggested settings for several configuration parameters, including data
                    directories.

Find the Cloudera Manager Service Monitor Host field for
                    SMM.






Enter the name of the Service Monitor host.






Click Continue. 
The Command Details section appears with the details of
                    the First Run command.

After the First Run Command completes, click Continue. 





The Summary section appears with a success or failure
                    report of the setup wizard. 



Click Finish to complete the cluster setup.
Cloudera recommends that you change the default password as soon as possible
                    by clicking the logged-in username at the top right of the home screen and
                    clicking Change Password.






Perform simple streams-related tasks on your cluster to
            evaluate streaming services on CDP Private Cloud Base.

Parent topic: Installing a Trial Streaming Cluster