Compatibility policiesCloudera Docs
Compatibility
    policies
Learn about the compatibility policies to be able to manage versioning of schemas in
    Schema Registry.
A key Schema Registry feature is the ability to version schemas as they evolve. Compatibility
      policies are created at the schema metadata level, and define evolution rules for each
      schema.
After a policy has been defined for a schema, any subsequent version updates
        must honor the schema’s original compatibility, otherwise you experience an error.
Compatibility of schemas can be configured with any of the following values:

Backward Compatibility
Indicates that a new version of a schema would be compatible with earlier versions
          of that schema. This means the data written from an earlier version of the schema can be
          deserialized with a new version of the schema.
When you have a Backward Compatibility policy on your schema, you can
          evolve schemas by deleting portions, but you cannot add information. New fields can be
          added only if a default value is also provided for them.
Forward Compatibility
Indicates that an existing schema is compatible with subsequent versions of the
          schema. That means the data written from a new version of the schema can still be read
          with an old version of the schema.
When you have a Forward Compatibility policy on your schema, you can
          evolve schemas by adding new information, but you cannot delete existing portions.
Full Compatibility
Indicates that a new version of the schema provides both backward and forward
          compatibilities.
None
Indicates that no compatibility policy is in place.

noteThe default value is Backward. You can set the compatibility policy when
      you are adding a schema. Once set, you cannot change it.
Validation level
Validation level limits the scope of the compatibility check when you add a new version of
        the schema. It checks compatibility only against the latest version or all previous versions
        based on the validation level value configured. Validation level only makes sense when
        coupled with compatibility. When compatibility is set to None then the
        validation is also ignored.
The validation level cannot be set from the Schema Registry UI. You can set it through the
        Swagger REST API. For
        example,SchemaMetadata.Builder builder = new SchemaMetadata.Builder("Blah")
        .type("avro")
        .schemaGroup("Kafka")
        .description("test")
        .compatibility(SchemaCompatibility.BACKWARD)
        .validationLevel(SchemaValidationLevel.ALL);
When using the Schema Registry UI, the validation level defaults to
        ALL.
The supported validation levels are as follows:
AllSchemas are compatible across multiple versions, for example, with Backward
              Compatibility, data written with version 1 can be read with version 7 too. All is the
              default validation level.
LatestThere is no transient compatibility, only the latest version is used, for
              example, with Backward Compatibility, data written with version 1 can only be read
              with version 2, not with version 7.


Allowed schema changes for different compatibilities
The following table presents a summary of the types of schema changes allowed for the
        different compatibility types and validation levels, for a given subject.

Compatibility types
Validation levels
Changes allowed
Check against which schemas
Upgrade first



Backward
Latest


Delete fields
Add optional fields


Last version
Consumers


Backward
All


Delete fields
Add optional fields


All previous versions
Consumers


Forward
Latest


Add fields
Delete optional fields


Last version
Producers


Forward
All


Add fields
Delete optional fields


All previous versions
Producers


Full
All


Add optional fields
Delete optional fields


Last version
Any order


None
All


All changes are accepted


Compatibility checking disabled
Depends




Parent topic: Schema Registry concepts