Associating a Python virtual environment with a Cloudera Data Engineering jobCloudera Docs
Associating a Python virtual environment with a Cloudera Data
    Engineering job
You can associate the Python virtual environment with a CDE job at
    the time of creation, or you can update an existing job.
CDE CLIWeb UI
Before you begin

Download and configure the CDE CLI.
Create a Python virtual environment CDE resource.
Create a CDE job.

Steps

Using the CDE CLI, run the cde job update command
            to associate a Python virtual environment with the job.
              cde job update --name pyspark-example --python-env-resource-name cde-python-env-resource
noteYou can specify a Python virtual environment resource at job
                creation time as well, using the flag
                  --python-env-resource-name. For
                example:cde job create --type spark --application-file pyspark-example.py --python-env-resource-name cde-python-env-resource --name pyspark-example



Before you begin

Create a Python virtual environment CDE resource.
Create a CDE job.

Steps

 In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the
              Data Engineering tile. The CDE Home page
            displays.
Click Job Runs  on the left navigation menu. The Job
              Runs page displays.
 Using the dropdown menu, select the virtual cluster containing the application you
            want to
              manage.
            

Click on the name of the job you want to modify.
Go to the Configuration tab.
Click Edit.
In the Python Environment section, click
            Select Python Environment.
Select the Python virtual environment resource you want to use,
            and then click Select Resource.
At the bottom of the page, click Update and
            Run to run the job immediately, or click the drop-down
            arrow on the button and select Update to
            update the job without running it.



Parent topic: Using Python virtual environments with Cloudera Data Engineering