Configuring your Controller ServicesCloudera Docs
Configuring your Controller Services
You can add Controller Services that can provide shared services to be used by the
  processors in your data flow. Create them after you build the NiFi dataflow and before you
  configure the processors, so that they are available when you configure your NiFi
  processors.

You have built the data flow on the NiFi canvas.


For this data flow, create two controller services.

DBCPConnectionPool
CSVReader

See the Related Information section below, for links to full details about these
    Apache NiFi controller services.


To add a controller service to your flow, right-click on the canvas and select
      Configure from the pop-up menu.
This displays the Controller Services Configuration window.

Select the Controller Services tab.

Click the + button to display the Add Controller
      Service dialog.

Select the required controller service and click Add.

Click the Configure icon in the right-hand column and configure the
     necessary options.

Click Apply to save the changes.

Click the Enable button (flash) in the far-right column of the
      Controller Services tab to enable the controller service.


DBCPConnectionPool
Reuse the same DBCPConnectionPool controller service that you
    created before to interact with the Snowflake database.


Property
Example value for Snowflake ingest data flow



Name
Rename to SnowflakeJDBCConnectionPool 


Database Connection URL


jdbc:snowflake://<account_name>.snowflakecomputing.com/?<connection_params>

Where:

<account_name> is similar to cb56215.europe-west2.gcp
<connection_parameters> is similar to  db=DEMO_DB




Database Driver Class Name
net.snowflake.client.jdbc.SnowflakeDriver


CSVReader
In this example, you are generating CSV data to ingest into the Snowflake remote
    database table. As a result, you must also configure a CSVReader Controller
    Service to parse the data. You require the CSV data to correctly construct the queries executed
    against the table to ingest the data.
You can accept the default configurations.


Once you have configured your controller services, proceed to the following tasks:

Configure your source processor.
Configure your target processor.
Confirm your data flow success.



Related informationDBCPConnectionPoolCSVReaderParent topic: Pushing data into Snowflake