Building your dataflowCloudera Docs
Building your dataflow
Set up the elements of your NiFi data flow that enables you to move data into
        Snowflake using Apache NiFi. This involves opening NiFi, adding processors to your NiFi
        canvas, and connecting the processors.

When you are building a flow to move data into Snowflake using Apache NiFi, you can
                consider using the following processors to build your data flow:

GenerateFlowFile
PutDatabaseRecord



You must have reviewed and met the prerequisites.


Launch the NiFi from your CDP Public Cloud or CDP Private Cloud Base
                    cluster.

Add the NiFi processors to your canvas.


Select the Processor icon from the Cloudera Flow
                            Management Actions pane, and drag a processor to
                            the canvas.
Use the Add Processor filter box to search for
                            the processor you want to add, and then click
                            Add.
Add each of the processors you want to use for your data flow.



Connect the two processors to create a data flow.


Click the Connection icon in the first processor,
                            and drag it to the second processor.A Create
                                    Connection dialog displays. It has two tabs:
                                    Details and
                                    Settings where you can configure the
                                connection's name, flow file expiration time period, thresholds for
                                back pressure, load balance strategy, and prioritization.
Click Add to close the dialog box and add the
                            connection to your flow. Optionally, you can add success and failure
                            funnels to your data flow, which help you see where flow files are
                            routed when your data flow is running.









Once you have finished building the data flow, move on to the following steps:

Create controller services for your data flow.
Configure your source processor.
Configure your target processor.
Confirm your data flow success.



Parent topic: Pushing data into Snowflake