Downloading the Snowflake JDBC driver JAR fileCloudera Docs
Downloading the Snowflake JDBC driver JAR file
Before you can create a dataflow that moves data out of a Snowflake database, you
        must ensure that NiFi can interact with the Snowflake database using a JDBC interface. To do
        this, you must download the Snowflake JDBC driver JAR file, upload it to each NiFi node in
        your cluster, and ensure that the proper permissions are set.

You need the Snowflake driver file, when defining the DBCP Connection Pool Controller
                Service that is used in the NiFi processors, in the CFM dataflow that moves data out
                of Snowflake. This driver allows NiFi to interact with the Snowflake database
                through the JDBC interface. 




You must have reviewed and met the prerequisites.


You must have logged in as an admin user.


You must have created a directory on all the NiFi nodes where you
                        will make the driver file available for NiFi




Download the latest Snowflake JDBC JAR file from the Snowflake
                    website.
For information on how to get the Snowflake JDBC JAR file, see the Snowflake
                    documentation in the Related information section below. 

Upload the JAR file to each of the NiFi nodes in your cluster.

As a root user,  on every NiFi node in your cluster, update the permissions for
                    the Snowflake JDBC JAR file, and make sure this can be accessed and read by the
                        nifi user:

chown nifi: <snowflake-jdbc>.jar



After you have downloaded the Snowflake JDBC driver, proceed to the following
                steps.


Add Snowflake CA certificates to the NiFi truststore.
Build the dataflow.
Create the controller services for your dataflow.
Configure your source processor.
Configure your target processor.
Confirm your dataflow is successful.




Related information Downloading / Integrating the JDBC DriverParent topic: Moving data out of Snowflake