Cloud provider requirementsCloudera Docs
Cloud provider requirements 
Review the requirements related to the AWS account that you would like to use with
    CDP.
AWS account


To follow this guide, you need to have access to an AWS account. In this
            guide, we assume that you have a newly created account or a sub-account with default
            settings and no network restrictions (custom routes to the Internet) or policy
            restrictions (AWS Organizations policies or Service Control Policies (SCPs)) in place.
            SCPs configured on the parent AWS Organization of your AWS account may impact certain
            steps described in this guide and may require that you follow a custom deployment
            path.
You also need the following account-level AWS settings:


An AWS role that has permissions to create IAM objects (cross-account
                role and policy, IAM roles and policies, S3 buckets). You will also need to create
                credentials for your IAM user role. You will need these in the next section for
                configuring the Terraform Provider for AWS on your machine. See AWS security credentials. 


Select a supported AWS region for your deployment. See Supported AWS regions. 


A vCPU quota of at least 200 cores. You may need a higher limit for larger
                deployments. You can check your current vCPU quota under the name Running On-Demand
                Standard (A, C, D, H, I, M, R, T, Z) instances. Make sure that the quota value is
                200 or larger. See the AWS documentation for requesting an EC2 vCPU
                    limit increase.


An elastic IP quota of at least 5 elastic IPs (for the public and
                semi-private patterns). The recommended quota is 10 elastic IPs.





Azure account
To follow this guide, you need to have access to an Azure account. In this guide, we assume
        that you have a newly created account or a sub-account with default settings and no network
        restrictions (custom routes to the Internet) or policy restrictions (Azure Organizations
        policies or Service Control Policies (SCPs)) in place. SCPs configured on the parent Azure
        Organization of your Azure account may impact certain steps described in this guide and may
        require that you follow a custom deployment path.
You also need the following tenant and subscription-level Azure permissions and
        settings:


You need to have write permissions for Azure AD in order to create the Azure
            service principal (App registration).


Your user needs to have Contributor privileges at least at the scope of the
            Azure resource group in which you will deploy CDP; That is, your user needs to have
            permissions to create managed identities, grant role assignments at the scope of the
            resource group, and create VNet/subnets and storage accounts.


Select a supported AWS region for your deployment. See Supported Azure regions.


A Total Regional vCPU quota of at least 200 cores. You may need a
            higher limit for larger deployments. For requesting a compute quota increase, see the
              Azure documentation. Make sure that the
              Standard DSv3 Family vCPUs quota is also 200 cores or larger.


A Public IP Addresses quota of at least 5 public IP addresses (for the
            public and semi-private patterns). The recommended quota is 10 IP addresses.




Make sure that all services required by CDP are available in your selected
            Azure region. You may need to request that Azure Support whitelists a particular service
            (such as Azure Database for PostgreSQL) for your subscription in your selected region.
            See Overview of Azure resources used by
            CDP.




Related informationOverview of AWS resources used by CDP