Getting started as an adminCloudera Docs
Getting started as an admin
Refer to this section if you are a CDP admin who is trying to get started in
    CDP.





Accessing CDP for the first time 
Access the CDP web interface at https://console.cdp.cloudera.com (if your CDP
        account was created in the Control Plane region  us-west-1) or
          https://console.<control-plane-region>.cdp.cloudera.com (if your CDP
        account was created in any other Control Plane region). When logging in for the first time,
        log in by using your MyCloudera credentials. 

Trying out a CDP quick start
If you would like to quickly set up CDP for evaluation purposes, you can use our AWS Quick Start, Azure Quick Start, or Google Cloud Quick Start.

Reviewing cloud provider requirements 
You should review the cloud provider  requirements for setting up a CDP environment:
AWS:
AWS Requirements, AWS Reference Network Architecture, and AWS
              environment validation tool.
Azure:
Azure Requirements

GCP: Google Cloud Requirements



Installing CDP CLI
You can install and configure CDP CLI. See CLI client setup.

Setting up Identity provider
In order to add users from your organization to CDP, set up your identity
        provider. For instructions, refer to Onboarding users. 

Registering an environment 
Register an environment for your organization. An environment determines the
        specific cloud provider region and virtual network in which resources can be provisioned,
        and includes the credential that should be used to access the cloud provider account. For
        instructions, refer to AWS environments, Azure environments, or Google Cloud environments documentation.

Assigning users or groups to your environment 
Once your environment is up and running, you should assign users or groups to the
        environment and then perform user sync. For instructions, refer to Enabling admin and user access to environments. 

Onboarding users and groups for cloud storage 
The minimal setup for cloud storage defined in environment prerequisites spins up a CDP
        environment and Data Lake with no end user access to cloud storage. Adding users and groups
        to a CDP cluster involves ensuring they are properly mapped to IAM roles to access cloud
        storage. For instructions, refer to:
Onboarding CDP users and groups for AWS cloud
              storage
Onboarding CDP users and groups for Azure cloud
              storage
Onboarding CDP users and groups for GCP cloud
              storage


Setting up Ranger authorization for your Data Lake 
Once your environment is up and running, you should log in to Ranger and create
        policies for access to specific tables and databases. You can either log in to Hive first
        and create resources and then create policies for them in Ranger, or you can create Ranger
        policies in advance.
For instructions on how to access your Data Lake cluster, refer to Accessing Data Lake services. For instructions on
        how to set up authorization in Ranger, refer to Using Ranger to provide authorization
        documentation.

Provisioning compute resources 
After performing these steps, you are set to start provisioning compute resources
        (Data Hub clusters, Data Warehouses, and so on). For more information, refer to the
        following documentation:

Data Hub
Data Engineering
DataFlow
Data Warehouse
Machine Learning

Operational Database


Registering your existing clusters 
You can optionally register your existing CDH and HDP clusters in CDP if you
        would like to generate a workload, data movement, and compute capacity plan and replicate
        your data. For instructions, refer to Managing classic clusters.


