Scaling KraftCloudera Docs
Scaling Kraft
Learn how to scale KRaft nodes (KRaft Controllers) in a Streams Messaging
        cluster.

noteKafka KRaft is available in this version of CDP but
        is not ready for production deployment. Cloudera encourages you to explore this technical
        preview feature in non-production environments and provide feedback on your experiences
        through the Cloudera Community Forums. For more information regarding KRaft limitations and
        unsupported features, see Unsupported Streams Messaging features. 
Streams Messaging clusters that you provision with any of the default Streams
                Messaging cluster definitions may include optional KRaft nodes. KRaft nodes house
                the KRaft Controller roles. If your cluster includes KRaft nodes, the Kafka service
                on the cluster is running KRaft mode and uses KRaft for metadata management instead
                of ZooKeeper. The number of KRaft nodes in the cluster can be scaled. This is done
                by adding nodes to or removing nodes from the Kraft Nodes host
                group using the Resize action in Data Hub.



Ensure that the cluster, its hosts, and all its services are healthy.
Ensure that the Kafka brokers and KRaft Controllers are commissioned and
                    running.

importantThe number of KRaft nodes in a cluster must
                be uneven. If you upscale or downscale the number of nodes to an even number, the
                scaling operation will fail.


Log in to the CDP web interface.

Go to Management Console > Data Hub Clusters.

Find and select the Data Hub cluster you want to scale.

Click Actions  > Resize.

Select the kraft host group.

Set the desired size of the host group.
You can enter a number or use the plus and minus buttons to adjust the number
                    of nodes. Ensure that you set an odd number of nodes.
Optional: 
If you are upscaling the cluster, select an Adjustment
                        type based on your requirements.
Optional: 
If you are downscaling the cluster, select Force
                        downscale to forcibly remove hosts.

Click Resize.

Wait until the new nodes become available.

Access the Cloudera Manager instance managing the cluster.

Restart all services that have stale configurations.

The cluster is resized.

