Scaling down Kafka ConnectCloudera Docs
Scaling down Kafka Connect
Learn how you can downscale Kafka Connect in a Streams Messaging cluster.

Kafka Connect in a Streams Messaging cluster can be downscaled. The downscale operation
        differs depending on which Streams Messaging cluster template you are using. In the Light
        Duty template, Kafka Connect is downscaled by decommissioning nodes from the
          Broker host group. In the Heavy Duty template, Kafka Connect is
        downscaled by decommissioning nodes from the Connect host group.
There are two methods that can be used to downscale a cluster. You can either have Data Hub
        choose which nodes to decommission or manually specify which nodes should be decommissioned.
        The following steps walk you through both methods.



Ensure that you have reviewed Scaling Kafka Connect.
Ensure that the cluster, its hosts, and all its services are healthy.
Ensure that the Kafka brokers are commissioned and running.
Do not restart Kafka or Cruise Control during a downscale operation.
Do not create new partitions during a downscale operation.
If using the Light Duty cluster template ensure the following:
Ensure that the Cruise Control Service is running.
Using the Cruise Control REST API, verify that Cruise Control is reporting that all
              partitions are healthy. importantAn
                  access level (admin, user or viewer) must be set for the user calling the API
                  endpoint in Cruise Control. For more information, see Cruise Control REST API endpoints.
                This can be done by calling the state API endpoint and
                ensuring the following in the response:
numValidPartitions is equal to
                      numTotalPartitions

monitoringCoveragePct is 100.0
API call
                example:https://[***MY-DATA-HUB-CLUSTER.COM***]/cdp-proxy-api/cruise-control/kafkacruisecontrol/state?json=trueYou
                can find the API base URL on the Endpoints tab of the
                  Cluster Details page. Management
                    Console  > Data Hub Clusters
                       >  [***YOUR
                    CLUSTER***] > 
                Endpoints.
This is required because in the Light Duty template, Kafka Connect is deployed on
            the same node as Kafka brokers. While Kafka Connect does not require Cruise Control for
            scaling, Kafka brokers do.


Log in to the CDP web interface.Go to Management Console > Data Hub
              Clusters.Find and select the Data Hub cluster you want to scale. Decommission nodes.
You can either let Data Hub choose which nodes to decommission or you can select the
            nodes that you want to have decommissioned.
Let Data Hub choose which nodes to decommission Manually specify which nodes to decommission
Click
                  Actions > Resize.
Select the host group you want to scale.For Light Duty clusters, select the
                    Broker host group. For Heavy Duty clusters, select the
                    Connect host group.
Set the desired size of the host group. You can enter a number or use the plus
                  and minus buttons to adjust the number of nodes.
Click Resize.noteData Hub chooses which nodes to
                  decommission based on how suitable it is to remove a specific node. As a result,
                  the nodes selected by Data Hub might not be the nodes that have the highest node
                  ID.

Go to Hardware.
Scroll down to the appropriate host group.For Light Duty clusters, go to the
                    Broker host group. For Heavy Duty clusters, go to the
                    Connect host group.
Select the nodes you want to remove. 
Click the Delete (trash bin) icon. 
Click Yes to confirm deletion.

Access the Cloudera Manager instance managing the cluster.Restart all services that have stale configurations. 
The cluster is downscaled. In Light Duty clusters, the number of nodes available in
      the Broker host group is equal to the configured number of nodes. In
      Heavy Duty clusters, the number of nodes available in the Connect host
      group is equal to the configured number of nodes. Connectors and tasks assigned to the
      decommissioned nodes are redistributed among remaining connect workers

Parent topic: Scaling Kafka Connect