Scaling down Kafka brokersCloudera Docs
Scaling down Kafka brokers
Learn how you can downscale Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster. 

The Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster can be downscaled. During a downscale
        operation, broker nodes are decommissioned from the Broker host group.
        Data and partitions of the decommissioned nodes are automatically moved to other nodes.
There are two methods that can be used to downscale a cluster. You can either have Data Hub
        choose which nodes to decommission or manually specify which nodes should be decommissioned.
        The following steps walk you through both methods.



Ensure that you have reviewed Scaling Kafka broker nodes.
Ensure that the cluster, its hosts, and all its services are healthy.
Ensure that the Kafka brokers are commissioned and running.
Ensure that the Cruise Control service is running.
Using the Cruise Control REST API, verify that Cruise Control is reporting that all
          partitions are healthy. importantAn access
              level (admin, user or viewer) must be set for the user calling the API endpoint in
              Cruise Control. For more information, see Cruise Control REST API endpoints. This
            can be done by calling the state API endpoint and ensuring the
            following in the response:
numValidPartitions is equal to
                  numTotalPartitions

monitoringCoveragePct is 100.0
API call
            example:https://[***MY-DATA-HUB-CLUSTER.COM***]/cdp-proxy-api/cruise-control/kafkacruisecontrol/state?json=trueYou
            can find the API base URL on the Endpoints tab of the
              Cluster Details page. Management Console
                 > Data Hub Clusters  > [***YOUR
                  CLUSTER***] > 
            Endpoints.
Do not restart Kafka or Cruise Control during a downscale operation.
Do not create new partitions during a downscale operation.


Log in to the CDP web interface.Go to Management Console > Data Hub
              Clusters.Find and select the Data Hub cluster you want to scale. Decommission nodes.
You can either let Data Hub choose which nodes to decommission or you can select the
            nodes that you want to have decommissioned.
Let Data Hub choose which nodes to decommission Manually specify which nodes to decommission
Click
                  Actions > Resize.
Select the Broker host group.
Set the desired size of the host group. You can enter a number or use the plus
                  and minus buttons to adjust the number of nodes.
Click Resize.noteData Hub chooses which nodes to
                  decommission based on how suitable it is to remove a specific node. As a result,
                  the nodes selected by Data Hub might not be the nodes that have the highest node
                  ID.

Go to Hardware.
Scroll down to the Broker host group.
Select the nodes you want to remove. 
Click the Delete (trash bin) icon. 
Click Yes to confirm deletion.

Access the Cloudera Manager instance managing the cluster.Restart all services that have stale configurations. 
The cluster is downscaled. The number of Kafka broker nodes available in the
        Broker host group is equal to the configured number of nodes.
      Partitions are automatically moved from the decommissioned brokers. Once no load is left on
      the broker, the broker is fully decommissioned and removed from the
        Broker host group.

Parent topic: Scaling Kafka brokers