Scaling Kafka brokersCloudera Docs
Scaling Kafka brokers
The Kafka brokers provisioned with the Light and Heavy duty versions of the Streams
    Messaging cluster definitions can be scaled. This is done by adding or removing nodes from the
    host groups containing Kafka brokers. During a scaling operation Cruise Control automatically
    rebalances partitions on the cluster. Before scaling Kafka brokers, Cloudera recommends that you
    review these notes regarding scaling operations.
Version limitations
Scaling brokers is only supported on:
Clusters newly provisioned with Cloudera Runtime 7.2.12 or higher.
Clusters upgraded from Cloudera Runtime 7.2.12 or higher to a newer version.


Not all Kafka host groups are scalable 
Streams Messaging clusters running Cloudera Runtime 7.2.12 or higher have two host groups
        of Kafka broker nodes. These are the Core_broker and
          Broker host groups. During an upscale or downscale operation, new
        broker nodes are added to or removed from the Broker host group. The
          Core_broker group contains a core set of brokers and is not scalable.
        For more information regarding the Streams Messaging cluster templates, see Streams
          Messaging cluster layout.

Downscale operations ensure that the cluster remains healthy
During a downscale operation there are a number of automated safety checks to ensure that
        the cluster stays healthy at all times and no data is lost when brokers are decommissioned.
        For example: 
Downscale operations are only carried out if sufficient resources are available.
            Otherwise they fail.
The partitions of a decommissioned broker are automatically moved to other brokers. 
A broker is only decommissioned and removed from the broker's host group if there is
            no load on that broker.



Related informationStreams Messaging cluster layoutScaling up Kafka brokersLearn how you can upscale Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster.Scaling down Kafka brokersLearn how you can downscale Kafka brokers in a Streams Messaging cluster. TroubleshootingLearn about the common issues that you might encounter when scaling Kafka broker nodes     in Streams Messaging Clusters.