Configure TLS encryption manually for Phoenix Query ServerCloudera Docs
Configure TLS encryption manually for Phoenix Query Server 
You can encrypt communication between clients and the Phoenix Query Server using
        Transport Layer Security (TLS) formerly known as Secure Socket Layer (SSL). You must follow
        these steps to manually configure TLS for Phoenix Query Server.


Keystores containing certificates bound to the appropriate domain names must be
                    accessible on all hosts running the Phoenix Query Server role of the Phoenix
                    service.
Keystores for Phoenix must be owned by the phoenix group, and have 0440 file
                    permissions (that is, the file must be readable by the owner and group).
Absolute paths to the keystore and truststore files must be specified. These
                    settings apply to all hosts on which daemon roles of the Phoenix service run.
                    Therefore, the paths you choose must be valid on all hosts.
The Cloudera Manager version must support the TLS/SSL configuration for Phoenix
                    at the service level. Ensure you specify absolute paths to the keystore and
                    truststore files. These settings apply to all hosts on which daemon roles of the
                    service in question run. Therefore, the paths you choose must be valid on all
                        hosts.An implication of this is that the keystore file names for a given
                        service must be the same on all hosts. If, for example, you have obtained
                        separate certificates for Phoenix daemons on hosts
                            node1.example.com and
                            node2.example.com, you might have chosen to store these
                        certificates in files called phoenix-node1.keystore and
                            phoenix-node2.keystore (respectively). When deploying
                        these keystores, you must give them both the same name on the target host —
                        for example, phoenix.keystore. 



In Cloudera Manager, select the Phoenix service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Use the Scope / Query Server filter.

Search for tls.

Select Enable TLS/SSL for Query Server.

Edit the following TLS/SSL properties according to your configuration.

Table 1. 

Property
Description



Query Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                                        Location
The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the
                                        server certificate and private key used for TLS/SSL. Used
                                        when Query Server is acting as a TLS/SSL server. The
                                        keystore must be in JKS format.


Query Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File Password 
The password for the Query Server JKS keystore
                                        file.


Query Server TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
The location on disk of the truststore file, in .jks
                                        format, used to confirm the authenticity of TLS/SSL servers
                                        to which the Query Server might connect. This is used when
                                        Query Server is the client in a TLS/SSL connection. This
                                        truststore file must contain the certificate(s) used to sign
                                        the connected service(s). If this parameter is not
                                        specified, the default list of known certificate authorities
                                        is used instead.


Query Server TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
The password for the Query Server TLS/SSL Certificate
                                        Trust Store File. This password is not mandatory to access
                                        the truststore; this field is optional. This password
                                        provides optional integrity checking of the file. The
                                        contents of truststores are certificates, and certificates
                                        are public information.




Click Save Changes.

Restart the Phoenix service.


Related informationManaging Apache Phoenix security