Creating ParsersCloudera Docs
Creating Parsers
Parsers transform raw data into JSON messages suitable for downstream enrichment and
      indexing by Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP). There is one parser for each data source
      and CCP pipes the information to the Enrichment/Threat Intelligence topology.
You can transform the field output in the JSON messages into information and formats
        that make the output more useful. For example, you can change the timestamp field output
        from GMT to your timezone.
You must make two decisions before you parse a new data source:


Type of parser to use
CCP supports three types of parsers:

Built-in
CCP features several built-in parsers that support many common security
                     devices.
General Purpose

CCP supports three general purpose parsers: Grok, CSV, and JSON map.



Grok - Regular expression-based parser extracts CCP values; ideal
                           for ingesting structured or semi-structured logs that are well understood
                           and telemetries with lower volumes of traffic
CSV - Maps CSV columns to CCP events
JSON Map - Maps JSON documents into CCP events




Java

A Java parser is appropriate for a telemetry type that is complex to parse,
                  with high volumes of traffic.




How to parse
CCP enables you to parse a new data source and transform data fields using the CCP
               Management module or the command line interface



Create a Parser for Your New Data Source by Using the Management UITo add a new data source, you must create a parser that transforms the data source       data into JSON messages suitable for downstream enrichment and indexing by Cloudera       Cybersecurity Platform (HCP). Although CCP supports both Java and general-purpose parsers, you       can learn the general process of creating parsers by viewing an example using the       general-purpose parser Grok. Create a Parser for Your New Data Source by Using the CLIAs an alternative to using the CCP Management module to parse your new data source,       you can use the CLI. Create Multiple Parsers on One TopologyYou can specify multiple parsers to run on one aggregated Storm topology to conserve       resources. However, for performance reasons, you should group multiple parsers that have       similar velocity or data flow and perform functions with similar complexity.Chain ParsersMany sensors contain metadata that should be ingested along with the data or contain       different sensor types that need to be parsed separately. You can chain multiple parsers for a       sensor to individually address the different types of information in the sensor. For example,       you can parse multiple components in a Syslog log file such as timestamp, message type, and       message payload, to differentiate the information contained in the log file. To chain parsers,       you need an enveloping parser and sub-parsers for one or more sensor types.Tune Parser Storm Parameters by Using the Management UIYou can tune some of your Storm parameters using the Management UI.Telemetry Data Source Parsers Bundled with CCPTelemetry data sources are sensors that provide raw events that are captured and pushed     into Apache Kafka topics to be ingested in Cloudera Cybersecurity Platform (CCP) powered by     Metron. CCP features several built -in parsers that support some common security     devices.