Create a Parser for Your New Data Source by Using the Management UICloudera Docs
Create a Parser for Your
      New Data Source by Using the Management UI
To add a new data source, you must create a parser that transforms the data source
      data into JSON messages suitable for downstream enrichment and indexing by Cloudera
      Cybersecurity Platform (HCP). Although CCP supports both Java and general-purpose parsers, you
      can learn the general process of creating parsers by viewing an example using the
      general-purpose parser Grok. 

 Determine the format of the new data source’s log entries, so you can parse them: 


Use ssh to access the host for the new data source.


View the different log files and determine which to parse:

sudo su - 
cd /var/log/$NEW_DATASOURCE 
ls

The file you want is typically the access.log, but your
                     data source might use a different name.


Generate entries for the log that needs to be parsed so that you can see the
                     format of the entries:

timestamp | time elapsed | remotehost | code/status | bytes | method | URL rfc931 peerstatus/peerhost | type




 Create a Grok statement file that defines the Grok expression for the log type you
               identified in Step 1.

importantYou must include timestamp in the Grok
                  expression to ensure that the system uses the event time rather than the system
                  time. You will not be able to save the Grok statement if the
                     TIMESTAMP field is empty.

Refer to the Grok documentation for additional details.

 Launch the CCP Management module from
                  $METRON_MANAGEMENT_UI_HOST:4200, or follow these steps: 


From the Ambari Dashboard, click Metron.


Select the Quick Links.


Select Metron Management UI.



 Launch the Management UI.

 Under Operations, click Sensors.

 Click  to view the new sensor panel: 






In the NAME field, enter the name of the new sensor.

In the Kafka Type field, enter the name of the new
               sensor.

 In the Parser Type field, choose the type of parser for the
               new sensor (in this example task, Grok).
Don't worry if you see "No Matching Kafka Topic." The Kafka topic will be created
               automatically when you save.

Enter a Grok statement for the new parser:


In the Grok Statement box, click  (expand window) to display the Grok validator
                     panel:



For SAMPLE, enter a sample log entry for the data
                     source.


For STATEMENT, enter the Grok statement you created
                     for the data source.
The Management UI automatically completes partial words in your Grok
                     statement as you enter them.

noteYou must include timestamp to ensure
                        that the system uses the event time rather than the system time.



Click TEST.

If the validator finds an error, it displays the error information;
                        otherwise, the valid mapping displays in the PREVIEW
                        field.

Consider repeating substeps a through c to ensure that your Grok statement
                     is valid for all sensor logs.


Click SAVE to save the sensor information and add it
                     to the list of sensors. 



Click the pencil icon to edit the sensor you just added.

Scroll down to the Parser Config section.

In the first open field, indicated by enter field, enter
                  timestampField.


In next open field, enter timestamp.

Click Save.

Continue to build and test the Grok statement until you have entries for each
               element in the log entry.

This new data source processor topology ingests from the
         $Kafka topic and then parses the event with the CCP Grok framework using the Grok pattern.
         The result is a standard JSON Metron structure that then is added to the "enrichment" Kafka
         topic for further processing.

Parent topic: Creating Parsers