Configuring IndexingCloudera Docs
Configuring Indexing
You configure an indexing topology to store enriched data in one or more supported
      indexes. Configuration includes understanding supported indexes and the default configuration,
      specifying index parameters, tuning indexes, turning off HDFS writer, and, if necessary,
      seeking support.
Understanding IndexingThe indexing topology is a topology dedicated to taking the data from a topology that       has been enriched and storing the data in one or more supported indices. More specifically,       the enriched data is ingested into Kafka, written in an indexing batch or bolt with a       specified size, and sent to one or more specified indices. The configuration is intended to       configure the indexing used for a given sensor type (for example, snort).Default ConfigurationIf you do not configure the individual writers, the sensor-specific configuration uses       default values. SolrSolr is an open source enterprise search platform. It is highly reliable, scalable and       fault tolerant, providing distributed indexing, replication and load-balanced querying,       automated failover and recovery, centralized configuration and more.ElasticsearchElasticsearch is a search engine based on the Lucene library. It provides a       distributed, multitenant-capable full-text search engine with an HTTP web interface and       schema-free JSON documents.HDFSIf you do not configure the individual writers, the sensor-specific configuration uses       default values. Troubleshooting IndexingIf Ambari indicates that your indexing is stopped after you have started your indexing,     this might be a problem with the Python requests module.Understanding Global ConfigurationThe global configuration file is a repository of properties that can be used by any       configurable component in the system. The global configuration file can be used to assign a       property to multiple parser topologies. For example, every message from every sensor is       validated against global configuration rules. The global configuration file can also be used       to assign properties to enrichments and the profiler which each use a single topology. For       example, you can use the global configuration to configure the enrichment topology’s writer       batching settings.Create Global ConfigurationsThe global configuration file is accessible to all configurable components in the       system. The global configuration file can be used to assign a property to multiple parser       topologies. For example, every message from every sensor is validated against global       configuration rules. The global configuration file can also be used to assign properties to       enrichments and the profiler which each use a single topology. For example, you can use the       global configuration to configure the enrichment topology’s writer batching       settings.Verify That Events Are IndexedAfter you add your new data source, you should verify that events are indexed and     output matches any Stellar transformation functions you used.