Known issues in Database CatalogsCloudera Docs
Known issues in Database Catalogs
This topic describes the Database Catalog known issues for Cloudera Data Warehouse
    Private Cloud.
Known issues identified in 1.5.1


DWX-15869: Database Catalog edit page does not load
If the Trusted Kerberos Realms configuration on the base
            cluster's Core Settings service is not empty or if the Additional Rules to
              Map Kerberos Principals to Short Names field
              (auth_to_local_rule property) contains the following characters:
              \, ", \t, \n,
              \b, and \f, then the CDW Database Catalog and
            Virtual Warehouse edit page does not load. The logs of the dwx-server pod in the control
            plane namespace contain the following error message: Not able to render
              config, err:invalid character 'Q' in string escape code.
If the Trusted Kerberos Realms property is configured,
            then perform the folowing:
Log in to Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.
Go to Clusters > Core Settings service > Actions, click Download Client Configuration. Save the
                file on your computer and decompress it.
Open the core-site.xml file and copy the value of the
                  hadoop.security.auth_to_local configuration property.
Paste the value of the hadoop.security.auth_to_local
                  configuration property in a text editor and remove all
                  \Q and \E regular expression constructs. Copy
                the modified text.
Go to Cloudera Manager > Clusters > Core Settings service > Configuration and paste the modified text in the Additional Rules to Map
                  Kerberos Principals to Short Names field.
Remove the Trusted Kerberos Realms configuration from Core Settings service > Configuration tab.
Click Save Changes.
Restart the affected services in Cloudera Manager to apply stale
                configurations.
Go to the Data Warehouse service and refresh your Database Catalogs and Virtual
                Warehouses. In case this does not work, deactivate and reactivate your environment
                in CDW.
If the Additional Rules to Map Kerberos Principals to Short
                Names field (extra_auth_to_local_rules property) in
              Core Settings service contains the following characters: \,
                ", \t, \n, \b,
              and \f, then remove these characters regular expression. Save changes
              and restart the affected services in Cloudera Manager, and then refresh the Database
              Catalog and Virtual Warehouses.


DWX-15302: Upgrade button stays visible even after the upgrade
            completes
After you upgrade the Database Catalog, the
              Upgrade button remains visible on the CDW web interface instead
            of disappearing or getting disabled.
Refresh the page on your browser.



Known Issues identified in 1.4.1


DWX-13758: Updating the pre-upgrade Database Catalog and Virtual
            Warehouse fails silently
If you update or refresh the Database Catalogs and Virtual
            Warehouses that were created before you upgraded to 1.4.1 by changing their
            configurations, then they may go into an erroneous state. noteThis issue is true if you are upgrading from 1.4.1 to 1.5.1. If you are upgrading
              from 1.5.0, you would not face this issue.Do not update or refresh the
              Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses that were created before you upgraded to
              1.4.1.
Create new Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses.



Known Issues identified before 1.4.1


DWX-8979: Parquet demo data set only loads partially on
            OpenShift clusters
On OpenShift clusters, the Parquet demo data set loads partially
            on a non-default Database Catalog, intermittently. As a result, you may intermittently
            and partially see the demo data set in Hue.
None.



Parent topic: Known issues and limitations in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private Cloud