Known issues in Impala Virtual WarehousesCloudera Docs
Known issues in Impala Virtual Warehouses
This topic describes the Impala Virtual Warehouse known issues for Cloudera Data
    Warehouse Private Cloud.
Known Issues identified in 1.5.1


DWX-15869: Virtual Warehouse edit page does not load
If the Trusted Kerberos Realms configuration on the base
            cluster's Core Settings service is not empty or if the Additional Rules to
              Map Kerberos Principals to Short Names field
              (auth_to_local_rule property) contains the following characters:
              \, ", \t, \n,
              \b, and \f, then the CDW Database Catalog and
            Virtual Warehouse edit page does not load. The logs of the dwx-server pod in the control
            plane namespace contain the following error message: Not able to render
              config, err:invalid character 'Q' in string escape code.
If the Trusted Kerberos Realms property is configured,
            then perform the folowing:
Log in to Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.
Go to Clusters > Core Settings service > Actions, click Download Client Configuration. Save the
                file on your computer and decompress it.
Open the core-site.xml file and copy the value of the
                  hadoop.security.auth_to_local configuration property.
Paste the value of the hadoop.security.auth_to_local
                  configuration property in a text editor and remove all
                  \Q and \E regular expression constructs. Copy
                the modified text.
Go to Cloudera Manager > Clusters > Core Settings service > Configuration and paste the modified text in the Additional Rules to Map
                  Kerberos Principals to Short Names field.
Remove the Trusted Kerberos Realms configuration from Core Settings service > Configuration tab.
Click Save Changes.
Restart the affected services in Cloudera Manager to apply stale
                configurations.
Go to the Data Warehouse service and refresh your Database Catalogs and Virtual
                Warehouses. In case this does not work, deactivate and reactivate your environment
                in CDW.
If the Additional Rules to Map Kerberos Principals to Short
                Names field (extra_auth_to_local_rules property) in
              Core Settings service contains the following characters: \,
                ", \t, \n, \b,
              and \f, then remove these characters regular expression. Save changes
              and restart the affected services in Cloudera Manager, and then refresh the Database
              Catalog and Virtual Warehouses.


DWX-15537: Kerberos authentication throwing "user not authorized
            error" after updating a usergroup in an Impala Virtual Warehouse
You may see an “User is not
              authorized” error when opening a session with Kerberos authentication
            to an Impala Virtual Warehouse where the access is restricted to user groups listed in
            the Virtual Warehouse settings. This problem may occur only when trying to connect with
            the same user as the delegation user specified during CDP Private Cloud Data Services
            environment activation.
To successfully connect to an Impala Virtual Warehouse
            from an impala-shell client using Kerberos, define the Impala delegation user
            (impala.doas.user) in the JDBC URL or in the impala-shell command. Ensure that the
            username is exactly the same as the one that you used to activate the Private Cloud Data
            Services environment and for which a Kerberos ticket was obtained at the time of the
            error.


DWX-15032: Impala Virtual Warehouse transitions to a running
            state way before the update finishes
When an Impala Virtual Warehouse is in an Updating or Upgrading
            state after an edit or upgrade operation the Virtual Warehouse transitions to a Running
            or Stopped state before the update process finishes. When the warehouse is in a Running
            or Stopped state after updating it, the changes made to the Virtual Warehouse, might not
            take effect until later.
To confirm whether the update has completed, check if the
            following log message is displayed in the dwx-server logs: "Virtual
              Warehouse update completed". 




DWX-14292: Impala executors and coordinator pods get stuck in
            pending state
If you have enabled low resource mode while activating an
            environment in CDW and also enabled the option to customize pod sizes for Impala from
            the Advanced Settings page, then you may notice that the executors
            and coordinator pods do not request the set amount of memory and CPU. This happens
            because the low resource mode overrides the default pod configuration. 
Low resource mode and custom pod configurations for Impala
            cannot be used at the same time. To resolve this issue, do not select the Low
              resource mode option while activating an environment. Instead, create
            custom pod configurations with lower resources for Impala. You can continue to use
            lesser resources as defined in the custom pod configuration for Hive. 




VIZ-2046: Trusted impersonation does not work in CDW
When you try to create a connection to the Impala Virtual
            Warehouse from Cloudera Data Visualization (CDV), CDV is unable to use Trusted
            Impersonation as a mode of authentication. Therefore, you need to enter both the
            username and password for authentication.
None.



Parent topic: Known issues and limitations in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private Cloud