Upgrade-related known issuesCloudera Docs
Upgrade-related known issues
This topic describes the upgrade-related known issues for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)
  Private Cloud.


DWX-15299: Atlas lineage does not work after upgrading from 1.5.0 to
     1.5.1
If you upgrade the Database Catalogs and the Virtual Warehouses after
     upgrading the platform from 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, then the Kafka producers have idempotence enabled
     by default. Idempotent producers must have idempotent write permission set on the cluster
     resource in Ranger. If idempotence is not disabled or if the write permission is not set
     correctly, then Atlas integration fails with the following error Entity is not
      found in atlas, please check metastore pod/atlas application logs’.
To resolve this issue, you can either:
Explicitly disable idempotence by setting the value of the atlas.kafka.enable.idempotence
       property to false in hive-atlas-config for Metastore, Hiveserver2, Hive query-executor and
       Impala coordinator.
Update your policies in Ranger and ensure that Hive and Impala users have Idempotent Write
       permission on the cluster resource.



DWX-8525 and DWX-8526: Known limitations for upgrading from 1.4.1. to
     1.5.1
Hue does not work after upgrade due to DWX-15176 (Hue frontend pods
     crashloop) after upgrading from 1.4.1 to 1.5.1.
You must reactivate the CDW environment after upgrading the
     Private Cloud data services from 1.4.1 to 1.5.1.importantReview the following caveats before upgrading from 1.4.1 to 1.5.1:
Reactivating the environment deletes the existing Database Catalogs and Virtual
        Warehouses. However, the metadata stored in the Hive Metastore (HMS) and data that is stored
        on HDFS or Ozone from the previous version is not deleted from the base cluster. Cloudera
        recommends that you manually take a backup of the Virtual Warehouse configurations, which
        you can use to create new Virtual Warehouses after the upgrade.
Apply workaround for the AD limitation (TSB-639) on the base cluster. Cloudera recommends
        that you do not use deprecated encryption types in production environments. Use stronger
        encryption types such as AES 256 and AES 128. For more information, see Resolving Kerberos authentication failure.


DWX-15571: tez.history.logging.proto-base-dir and hive.hook.proto.base-directory
          locations change after the runtime upgrade
The values of following Hue Query Processor properties change after you upgrade the
          Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouses to the latest version: 
tez.history.logging.proto-base-dir
hive.hook.proto.base-directory
CDW changes these locations to match the base cluster configuration for
            hive.metastore.warehouse.external.dir. You may also see the
            FileNotFoundException: File does not exist error in the Hue
          Query Processor logs.noteThis known issue does not cause any
            change in the functionality.
To use the old location and to avoid seeing the "File does not exist" error in the logs,
          you must update the Hue Query Processor configurations as follows:
Log in to the Data Warehouse service as an DWAdmin.
Go to Database Catalog >  > Edit > CONFIGURATIONS > Hue query processor and select hue-query-processor.json from the
                Configuration files drop-down menu.
Note the paths of the tez.history.logging.proto-base-dir and
                hive.hook.proto.base-directory properties.
After you upgrade the Database Catalog, go to Database Catalog >  > Edit > CONFIGURATIONS > Hue query processor and select hue-query-processor.json from the
                Configuration files drop-down menu.
Specify the desired path under the dasConf section as shown in the
              following example:  "dasConf": {
    "hive.hook.proto.base-directory": "/warehouse/tablespace/external/hive/sys.db/query_data",
    "tez.history.logging.proto-base-dir": "/warehouse/tablespace/external/hive/sys.db"
  },
Click Apply Changes.



Parent topic: Known issues and limitations in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private Cloud