Fixed issues in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private CloudCloudera Docs
Fixed issues in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private Cloud
This section lists issues fixed in this release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)
    service.


OPSAPS-64734: Unable to add Impala as a new service if the default
          Hive warehouse directory is on Ozone
Earlier, when you tried to add the Impala service when the default
          Hive warehouse directory was configured to be on Ozone, the operation failed because o3fs
          and ofs filesystem interfaces do not support modifying the ACLs. This issue has been
          fixed.


OPSAPS-58019: “SERVICE_PRINCIPAL is required for kinit” error
          while activating a new environment 
Earlier, if the /etc/krb5.conf file on the
          Cloudera Manager host contained "include" or "includedir" directives, then you encountered
          Kerberos-related failures on both Embedded Container Service and RedHat OpenShift
          platforms, and you had to comment the lines containing “include” and “includedir”
          directives in the /etc/krb5.conf file. This issue has been fixed, and
          you no longer need to comment these directives. 




DWX-13753: Multiple CDW PVC Environments in same AD Domain (causes
          errors like Invalid Kerberos principals)  
Earlier, when you created a Private Cloud cluster, the Control
          Plane created a default ECS environment with the name “default”. Because CDW uses
          deterministic namespace names by default, the Kerberos keytabs on the existing ECS cluster
          were invalidated by values from the new ECS cluster’s Cloudera Manager when you had
          multiple ECS clusters managed using different instances of Cloudera Manager but using the
          same Active Directory (AD) server. This caused the existing ECS environment to become
            unusable.As a workaround, you had to disable the Use deterministic
              namespaces names option in the CDW Advanced Settings
            page before activating an environment in CDW.This issue has been fixed. The
            default ECS environment is now created with a unique name by the Control Plane whenever
            you create a Private Cloud cluster. The environment name includes a portion of the ECS
            cluster’s app domain. You no longer have to disable the Use deterministic
              namespaces names option in the CDW Advanced Settings
            page before activating an environment in CDW.If you want to create ECS or OCP
            environments with the same name from the respective Cloudera Manager instances, then you
            must deselect the Use deterministic namespaces names option in
            the CDW Advanced Settings page before activating an environment in
            CDW. Otherwise, the older environments become unusable.


DWX-14281: Configuration changes to Database Catalogs are not
          applied
This issue has been fixed


DWX-14302: Hive query iolation executor pod crash loops with
          "Failed to start LLAP Daemon" exception
Earlier, if you enabled the Query Isolation option on a Hive
          Virtual Warehouse, the queries that should run in isolation failed to start the executor,
          and eventually timed out with an exception. This issue has been fixed.


DWX-6234: WAIT TIME seconds cannot be set to "0" in the Hive
          Virtual Warehouse UI
Earlier, when you set the WAIT TIME in the
          Hive Virtual Warehouse to 0, the UI automatically used to change it to
            60. This issue has been fixed.


DWX-13934: Impala returns 401 Unauthorized error when connecting
          to an Impala Virtual Warehouse
Earlier, Hue and Impala shell displayed a 401 Unauthorized
            error when you submited a query to an Impala Virtual Warehouse. This issue has been
          fixed.


DWX-8348: Service Discovery does not work when Impala is enabled
          with Unified Analytics
This issue has been fixed.


DWX-13891: Hive queries intermittently fail with
          “InvalidACLException” error
Earlier, you may have encountered the following error in Hue or Beeline when you run the
          DROP DATABASE, DROP TABLE, or ALTER TABLE DROP PARTITION operations on an Impala Virtual
          Warehouse running in the Unified Analytics mode:
            org.apache.zookeeper.KeeperException$InvalidACLException: KeeperErrorCode
            = InvalidACL for /llap-sasl/user-hive. This issue has been fixed.



