What's new in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private CloudCloudera Docs
What's new in Cloudera Data Warehouse Private Cloud
Learn about the new features in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.5.1.
Ability to upgrade Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses
After upgrading the CDP platform to the latest version, you can upgrade the Database
        Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses to the latest available versions from the CDW web interface
        or from the CLI. The option to upgrade is displayed only if you are upgrading CDP Private
        Cloud platform from 1.5.0 to a newer version (1.5.1). For more information, see Upgrading Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in CDW
          Private Cloud.

CDW supports Kerberos authentication for Beeline, Impala-shell, Impyla, and other JDBC
        clients
In addition to LDAP, you can now use Kerberos to authenticate requests from CLI-based
        Business Intelligence clients such as Beeline, Impala-shell, Impyla, and other JDBC clients.
        You can store user credentials in Kerberos Keytab files, so that you can run commands
        without having to specify the username and password as command-line parameter or enter them
        after running a command. See Authenticating users in CDW Private Cloud.

Group-level access control for Impala Virtual Warehouse
CDW enables you to allow one or more user groups to access a particular Impala Virtual
        Warehouse. As a result, only specific users can connect to a Virtual Warehouse, from all
        supported channels (Hue, JDBC, or other Business Intelligence tools). The option to specify
        user groups when creating a new Virtual Warehouse is enabled by default. You can disable
        this option from the Advanced Settings page in the Data Warehouse UI.
        See Configuring access control for Impala
        Warehouses.

Enhancements to the Impala custom pod configuration UI
The user experience to create and customize the custom pod configurations for Impala has
        been enhanced. See the revised how-to topic Creating custom pod configurations for Impala Virtual
          Warehouses.

Workload-aware autoscaling for Impala (Preview)
Using workload-aware autoccaling, you can configure multiple executor groups within a
        single Virtual Warehouse that can independently autoscale to allow handling of different
        workloads in the same Virtual Warehouse. According to each query’s resource requirement, the
        query is scheduled on an executor group size that is appropriate for that query. For more
        information, see Workload aware autoscaling in Impala.
noteThis feature is in technical preview and not recommended for
        production deployments. Cloudera recommends that you try this feature in development or test
        environments.
You must select the Enable workload-aware autoscaling for Impala
        option from the Advanced Configurations to use workload-aware
        autoscaling. See Enabling workload-aware autoscaling for Impala.

Configurations are copied from base to CDW for seamless workload migration
Configurations such as default table types, compression format, file format, parquet
        resolution, timezones, and so on are copied from CDP Private Cloud Base to CDW Data Service
        when you activate an Environment in CDW. This enables seamless migration of Impala and Hive
        LLAP workloads to CDW. See List of configurations copied from the Base cluster to CDW
          Private Cloud.

Ability to browse the Ozone filesystem using the Hue File Browser
You can browse files and directories on the Ozone filesystem on the base cluster just like
        you can on S3 or ADLS Gen2. To enable browsing files on Ozone, you must first enable the
        Ozone File Browser. See Enabling browsing Ozone from Hue.

Support for Ozone erasure-coded data in Impala
Impala now supports reading from Ozone data stored with Erasure Coding (EC). The Ozone EC
        feature provides data durability and fault tolerance along with reduced storage space and
        ensures data durability similar to the Ratis THREE replication approach. EC can be
        considered as an alternative to replication. For more information, see Erasure Coding Overview.

Support for Ozone erasure-coded data in Hive
Hive now supports reading data stored in Ozone that is enabled with Erasure Coding (EC).
        The Ozone EC feature provides data durability and fault-tolerance along with reduced storage
        space and ensures data durability similar to Ratis/THREE replication approach. For more
        information, see Using Ozone storage with Cloudera Data
        Warehouse.

Ability to view Impala query details in Hue
You can now view Impala query details, query plan, execution summary, and query metrics on
        the new Impala Queries tab on the Job Browser page
        using Hue in CDW, and use this information to tune and optimize your queries. You can also
        compare two queries and view all query details side-by-side. For more information, see Viewing Impala query details.

The “enable_queries_list” configuration has been removed from Hue jobbrowser safety
        valve section
The enable_queries_list configuration in the CDW Hue safety valve was used
        to display or hide the Queries tab on the Job
          Browser page. This configuration has been removed. The
          Queries tab is displayed by default based on the type of Virtual
        Warehouse, whether it is Hive or Impala. You can override the query_store
          configuration and hide the Queries tab. For more
        information, see Hue configurations in Cloudera Data Warehouse.

Hive ACID compaction observability
Compaction observability is a notification and information system based on metrics about
        the health of the compaction process. You can access Grafana dashboards from CDW web
        interface to view alerts about compaction status, the issue, and recommended actions.
The following list describes a few of the 25 notifications:
Oldest initiated compaction passed threshold
Large number of compaction failures
More than one host is initiating compaction

Create an environment in this release to use this feature. For more information, see Compaction observability.

CDW in Private Cloud supports Apache Iceberg V2 on HDFS and Ozone (Preview)
Apache Iceberg integration with Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) enhances the Lakehouse
        architecture by extending multifunction analytics to a petabyte scale for multi-cloud and
        hybrid use cases. From Hive or Impala, you use Apache Iceberg features in CDW on HDFS and
        Ozone, which include time travel, create table as select (CTAS), and schema and partition
        evolution. To use Iceberg with CDW, you must upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Data Services
        1.5.1.
Apache Iceberg V1 and V2 is in technical preview in the Private Cloud 1.5.1 release and is
        not recommended for production deployments. Cloudera recommends that you try this feature in
        test or development environments.
noteIceberg tables cannot be accessed from Hive, Impala, Spark, and
        Flink on the base cluster. You need to be on CDW. For the list of supported features and
        more information, see Iceberg overview.

Deprecations
Data Analytics Studio (DAS) has been deprecated and is no
        longer available with CDW Private Cloud starting with 1.5.1. DAS features have been migrated
        to the Hue Query Processor, along with the ability to query data in Hive, Impala, and
        Unified Analytics mode. After you upgrade to this release, any DAS instances that are
        running will be removed from the cluster.


