Bulk Loading TAXII Threat Intelligence InformationCloudera Docs
Bulk Loading TAXII Threat
    Intelligence Information
You can enrich your telemetry with threat intelligence information.
You can choose to skip this
        section and come back to it later if you don't want to apply threat intelligence information
        at this time.
Metron provides an
        extensible framework to plug in threat intel sources. The threat intelligence feeds are
        loaded into a threat intelligence store similar to how the enrichment feeds are loaded. The
        keys are loaded in a key-value format. The key is the indicator and the value is the JSON
        formatted description of what the indicator is. When threat intelligence is applied as an
        enrichment to a field, CCP looks up the value of the field in the threat intelligence loaded
        into HBase. If the field value is found, CCP sets the is_alert field to
        true. 
We recommend using a threat
        feed aggregator such as Soltra to dedup and normalize the feeds via STIX/Taxii. Metron provides an adapter
        that is able to read Soltra-produced STIX/Taxii feeds and stream them into HBase. CCP
        additionally provides a flat file and STIX bulk loader that can normalize, dedup, and bulk
        load or poll threat intel data into HBase even without the use of a threat feed
        aggregator.

Fetch Hail a TAXII FeedsAfter you install your TAXII provider, you must fetch the latest Hail a TAXII feeds       into the TAXII server. Hail a TAXII.com is a repository of Open Source Cyber Threat       intelligence feeds in STIX format.Configure a TAXII Extractor Configuration FileAfter you fetch the latest OpenTAXII feeds to the OpenTAXII server, you must create an       extractor configuration file to bulk load the threat intelligence enrichment store into       HBase.Configure a TAXII Connection Configuration FileIn addition to the Extractor configuration file, this TAXII loader requires a       configuration file describing the connection information to the TAXII server.Push HailaTAXII Feeds to HBaseAfter you create the extractor configuration and connection configuration files, you       can push the HailaTAXII feeds from the OpenTAXII server into HBase.Verify Threat Intelligence Feeds in HBaseAfter you push the HailaTAXII feeds to HBASE, you should check HBase for the threat       intelligence information. Parent topic: Enriching Threat Intelligence Information