Enriching Threat Intelligence InformationCloudera Docs
Enriching Threat Intelligence Information
You can enrich your telemetry with threat intelligence information.
You can choose to skip this
        section and come back to it later if you don't want to apply threat intelligence at this
        time.
Cloudera Cybersecurity
        Platform (CCP) provides an extensible framework to plug in threat intelligence sources. The
        threat intelligence feeds are loaded into a threat intelligence store similar to how the
        enrichment feeds are loaded. The keys are loaded in a key-value format. The key is the
        indicator and the value is the JSON formatted description of what the indicator is. When
        threat intelligence is applied as an enrichment to a field, CCP looks up the value of the
        field in the threat intelligence loaded into HBase. If the field value is found, CCP sets
        the is_alert field to true.
You can bulk load threat intelligence information from the following sources:


CSV Ingestion


HDFS through MapReduce


Taxii Loader


We recommend using a threat
        feed aggregator such as Soltra to dedup and normalize the feeds via STIX/Taxii. CCP provides an adapter
        that is able to read Soltra-produced STIX/Taxii feeds and stream them into HBase. CCP
        additionally provides a flat file and STIX bulk loader that can normalize, dedup, and bulk
        load or poll threat intel data into HBase even without the use of a threat feed
        aggregator.

Bulk Loading CSV Threat Intelligence InformationMetron is designed to work with STIX/Taxii threat feeds, but can also be bulk loaded     with threat data from a CSV file. Command-separated values (CSV) is a simple file format used to     store tabular data, such as a spreadsheet or database. Files in the CSV format can be imported     to and exported from programs that store data in tables.Bulk Loading TAXII Threat Intelligence InformationYou can enrich your telemetry with threat intelligence information.Using Stellar Data to Transform Threat Intelligence DataYou can transform and filter threat intelligence data as it is loaded into HBase by       using Stellar extractor properties in the extractor configuration file. This task is       optional.Map Fields to HBase EnrichmentsNow that you have data flowing into the HBase table, you need to ensure that the       enrichment topology can be used to enrich the data flowing past. You can refine the parser       output through transformations, enrichments, and threat intelligence. Verify That the Threat Intel Events Are EnrichedAfter you finish enriching your new data source, you should verify that the output       matches your enrichment information.