Network Planning for Cloudera Machine Learning on AzureCloudera Docs
Network Planning for Cloudera Machine Learning on Azure
Before attempting to deploy your Azure virtual network and set up your Azure Environment
  and ML Workspaces, you should plan the network.
As an example, a minimum architecture to support two ML Workspaces would comprise the
   following: 
An Azure virtual network. Cloudera Machine Learning can use an existing virtual network if
     available.
One subnet dedicated to the Azure NetApp Files service, if this service is utilized. Azure
     FIles NFS does not need a dedicated subnet. 
One subnet for each ML Workspace.

Keep the following considerations in mind when planning your network: 
Each ML workspace requires one subnet in the virtual network.
Plan the CIDR addresses for each subnet so that the ranges do not overlap.
Each subnet should use a /26 CIDR. This should accommodate a maximum of 30 worker nodes as
     well as 4 infrastructure nodes for Cloudera Machine Learning.
To use GPUs, create a virtual network with /25 CIDR subnets to accommodate a maximum of 30
     GPU nodes. If you created a /26 CIDR network originally, and then subsequently need to add GPU
     support, you must create a new network with /25 CIDR subnets. Subnets cannot be resized. 
Azure Files NFS v4.1 (first preference) and Azure NetApp Files v3 (second preference) are
     the recommended NFS services for use with Cloudera Machine Learning on Azure.
Subnets may not use the following reserved CIDR blocks: 10.0.0.0/16 or 10.244.0.0/16 
Even if private IP addresses are used for the CML service, each AKS cluster provisions a
     public IP for egress traffic, communication with the Kubernetes control plane, and backwards
     compatibility. For more information, see Use a public Standard Load Balancer in Azure Kubernetes Service
      (AKS).

In a Single Resource Group setup in Azure, the entire CDP stack is supposed to use the
     resource group provided by the customer, and not create any new resource groups. However, note
     that Azure will automatically create new resource groups for Azure managed resources, such as a
     new resource group for AKS compute worker nodes.
Each CML workspace cluster must not share any subnets or routing tables with any other CDP experience
     or AKS cluster.
After provisioning a workspace, do not remove firewall rules to allow inbound and outbound
     access.
Installations must comply with firewall requirements set by cloud providers at all times.
     Ensure that ports required by the provider are not closed. For example, Kubernetes services
     have requirements documented in Use Azure Firewall to protect Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
      Deployments. Also, for information on repositories that must be accessible to set up
     workspaces, see Outbound network access destinations for Azure.


Related informationUse a public Standard Load Balancer in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)Use Azure Firewall to protect Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) clustersOutbound network access destinations for Azure