Create Azure Files Storage Account and File ShareCloudera Docs
Create Azure Files Storage Account and File Share
Azure Files NFS v4.1 is a managed, POSIX compliant NFS service on Azure. The file
        share is used to store files for the CML infrastructure and ML workspaces. This is the
        recommended NFS service for use with CML.

Consult the Azure Files for NFS documentation, below, for detailed
                information on how to create an NFS share. We outline the sequence of steps
                here.


Create a FileStorage storage account.

Disable secure transfer.

See Create a private endpoint, below, to create a private endpoint
                    between the FileStorage storage account for each of the subnets that you plan to
                    use for creating the CML workspace. Without this step, CML workspace nodes will
                    not have connectivity to the NFS server.

Create NFS file shares, one for each ML Workspace. Create each file share with
                    an initial capacity of at least 100 GB. Ensure that the “No Root Squash” export
                    policy is set. This is the default setting.

Create a Linux VM in the subnet in which you are going to create the CML
                    workspace, and ensure that you can successfully mount the NFS share in the VM.
                    This step will ensure that there are no connectivity issues to the NFS server
                    from hosts in this subnet.

Create a directory within the NFS share to be used as the CML workspace’s
                    projects folder. For example, if the NFS export path is
                    ‘azurenfsv4.file.core.windows.net:/myshare’, and is mounted as ‘/mnt/myshare’,
                    run ‘sudo mkdir /mnt/myshare/ml-workspace-1; sudo chown 8536:8536
                    /mnt/myshare/ml-workspace-1’ to set ownership to the ‘cdsw’ user ID and group
                    ID.

Go to the mount instructions page to copy the server name and export path
                    details. Enter this into the CML control plane when prompted for an existing
                    server. Due to a known issue in the control plane UI, the “nfs://” prefix must
                    be specified if you are using the domain name of the file share server, e.g.,
                    “nfs://azurenfsv4.file.core.windows.net:/myshare/ml-workspace-1”. Remember to
                    select the NFS protocol version as 4.1.

The Linux VM created above can be deleted if there are no issues with mounting
                    the NFS share.


Related informationAzure Files for NFS documentationCreate a private endpointParent topic: Azure Environment Setup for ML Workspaces