Limitations on AzureCloudera Docs
Limitations on Azure
This section lists some resource limits that CML and Azure impose on workloads running
    in ML workspaces. 


There is no ability to grant or revoke remote access (via Kubeconfig) to specific users.
          Users with the MLAdmin role in the environment can download a Kubeconfig file. The
          Kubeconfig file will continue to allow access even if the MLAdmin role is later
          revoked.


Support is limited to regions that provide AKS. Also, customers should check availability
          of Azure Files NFS or Azure NetApp Files and GPU instance types in their intended region.
          See Supported Azure regions for more information.

Data is not encrypted in transit to Azure Files NFS or Azure NetApp Files or other NFS
        systems, so make sure to implement policies to ensure security at the network level.
Each ML workspace requires a separate subnet. For more information on this issue, see
            Use kubenet networking with your own IP address ranges in Azure
            Kubernetes Service (AKS).

Heavy AKS activity can cause default API rate limits to trigger, causing throttling and
        eventually failures for AKS clusters. For some examples, see AKS issue
          1187 and AKS issue
            1413. 
When you provision an Azure Kubernetes (AKS) cluster, a Standard load balancer is
        provisioned by default. The Standard load balancer always provisions a public IP for egress
        traffic, communication with the Kubernetes control plane, and backwards compatibility.
        Cloudera software does not use this public IP directly, or expose anything on it. For more
        information, see: Use a public Standard Load Balancer in Azure Kubernetes Service
          (AKS)
The following Azure Policy add-on for AKS has a default policy that causes workspace
        upgrades to fail. To avoid this problem, the Kubernetes clusters should not allow
          container privilege escalation policy should not be enabled. For more
        information on AKS policies, see Azure Policy built-in definitions for Azure Kubernetes
          Service.
The Workspace Backup and Restore feature, which on Azure is only available through the CDP
        CLI, does not perform a backup of NFS.


Related informationSupported Azure regions