Other NFS OptionsCloudera Docs
Other NFS Options

As an alternative to Azure Files NFS or Azure NetApp Files, you can configure an NFS server
   that is external to the CML cluster. This is not the recommended approach.
Make sure to check the following points:

CML requires an NFS service that is backed by a fully POSIX compliant file system. NFS
    service implemented over S3-like blob storage, such as NFS v3 over ADLS, is not supported.
Currently, CML supports NFS versions 4.1 and 3. The NFS client within CML must be able to
    mount the NFS storage with default options, and also assumes these export options: rw,sync,no_root_squash,no_all_squash,no_subtree_check
To prevent data loss on disk failure, it is recommended that the NFS export directory resides
     on a RAID disk. Before attempting to provision your CML workspace, create a Linux VM in the
     subnet you will use for CML. noteVerify that this VM can mount the directory exported by your
      NFS server.
Before creating a CML workspace, the storage administrator must create a directory that will
    be exported to the cluster for storing ML project files for that workspace. Either a dedicated
    NFS export path, or a subdirectory in an existing export must be specified for each workspace.
    If the directory was previously used for another workspace, there may be extraneous files
    remaining there. Make sure that all such remaining files are deleted. 
Each CML workspace needs a unique directory that does not have files in it from a different or
   previous workspace. For example, if 10 CML workspaces are expected, the storage administrator
   will need to create 10 unique directories. Either one NFS export and 10 subdirectories within it
   need to be created, or 10 unique exports need to be created.

Create a workspace in a dedicated NFS share
For example, to use a dedicated NFS share for a workspace named “workspace1” from NFS server
   “nfs_server”, do the following: 


Create NFS export directory “/workspace1”. 


Change ownership for the exported directory


CML accesses this directory as a user with a UID and GID of 8536.  So run chown 8536:8536
       /workspace1

Make the export directory group-writeable and set GID:  chmod g+srwx /workspace1



Provide the NFS export path nfs_server:/workspace1 when prompted by the CML Control Plane App
     while creating the workspace.


To use a subdirectory in an existing NFS share, say nfs_server:/export, do the following:


Create a subdirectory /export/workspace1


Change ownership: chown 8536:8536 /export/workspace1


Set GID and make directory group writeable: chmod g+srwx /export/workspace1


Provide the export path nfs_server:/export/workspace1 when prompted by the CML Control
       Plane App. 






Parent topic: Azure Environment Setup for ML Workspaces