kafka-delegation-tokensCloudera Docs
kafka-delegation-tokens
Learn how to use the kafka-delegation-tokens tool.
The kafka-delegation-tokens provides the user with the functionality
      required for using and managing delegation tokens. 
The tool can be used to issue, renew, expire, or describe delegation tokens.

Issue, and store for verification
The owner of the token is the currently authenticated principal. A renewer can be
          specified when requesting the token.
          kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port  --create   --max-life-time-period -1 --command-config client.properties --renewer-principal User:user1
Renew 
 Only the owner and the principals that are renewers of the delegation token can extend
          its validity by renewing it before it expires. A successful renewal extends the Delegation
          Token’s expiration time for another renew-interval, until it reaches its max lifetime.
          Expired delegation tokens cannot be renewed. The brokers remove expired delegation tokens
          from the broker’s cache and from Zookeeper.importantA delegation token
            cannot be used to renew a delegation token. The delegation token owner must authenticate
            using a different method to renew a
          token.kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port --renew    --renew-time-period -1 --command-config client.properties --hmac lAYYSFmLs4bTjf+lTZ1LCHR/ZZFNA==
Remove 
Delegation tokens are removed when they are canceled by the client or when they expire.
          kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port --expire   --expiry-time-period -1   --command-config client.properties  --hmac lAYYSFmLs4bTjf+lTZ1LCHR/ZZFNA==
Describe 
Tokens can be described by owners, renewers or the Kafka super
            user.kafka-delegation-tokens --bootstrap-server hostname:port --describe --command-config client.properties  --owner-principal User:user1noteIn
            Apache Kafka, principals that have the describe permission on the token resource can
            also describe the token.


Parent topic: Command Line Tools