Unsupported command line toolsCloudera Docs
Unsupported command line tools
Kafka command line tools not supported by Cloudera.

The following tools can be found as part of the Kafka distribution, but their use is
        generally discouraged for various reasons as documented here.



Tool
Notes



connect-mirror-maker
Use Streams Replication Manager instead. 


connect-distributed
connect-standalone

Use Cloudera Manager to deploy and manage Kafka Connect workers. In CDP Kafka
              Connect workers are represented by Kafka Connect roles, which can be deployed under a
              Kafka service. 


kafka-acls
Cloudera recommends using Ranger for authorization instead.


kafka-broker-api-versions
Primarily useful for Client-to-Broker protocol related development.


kafka-configs
Use Cloudera Manager to adjust any broker or security properties instead of the
                kafka‑configs tool. This tool should only be used to modify topic
              properties.


kafka-delete-records
Cloudera does not recommend using this tool in CDP.


kafka-features
Used to describe and modify currently active features in the cluster. Limited
              support is provided. Only use this tool to describe currently active
              features.


kafka-mirror-maker
Use Cloudera Manager to deploy Mirror Maker instances.


kafka-replay-log-producer
Can be used to “rename” a topic. 


kafka-replica-verification
Validates that all replicas for a set of topics have the same data. This tool is
              a “heavy duty” version of the ISR column of kafka-topics tool.
            


kafka-server-start
kafka-server-stop

Use Cloudera Manager to manage any Kafka host. 


kafka-storage
Used to generate a universally unique identifier (UUID) for the cluster and to
              format log directories when Kafka is running in KRaft mode. Both UUID generation and
              log directory formatting are done automatically by Cloudera Manager when you deploy
              the Kafka service for the first time as well as when you add new Kafka role instances
              to the cluster. The generated UUID is stored internally by Cloudera Manager and cannot
              be replaced. Additionally, adding and manually formatting new log directories in KRaft
              not supported.


kafka-verifiable-consumer
kafka-verifiable-producer
These scripts are intended for system testing.



zookeeper-server-start
zookeeper-server-stop

Use Cloudera Manager to manage any Zookeeper host.


zookeeper-shell
Limit usage of this script to reading information from Zookeeper.



Parent topic: Command Line Tools