Tagging Multiple AssetsCloudera Docs
Tagging Multiple Assets
On the Data Catalog search page, you can add tags to multiple assets based on the
        asset type that you select based on the search result. 
When you select an asset, you can add one or more available tags to the selected asset.
            You can also create one or more new tags and associate the newly created tags to the
            selected asset. The number of selected assets that you plan to tag is displayed. As you
            add the number of tags to one or more selected assets, The Add
                Tag panel displays the number of tags assigned. 



noteIf you do not save your changes without clicking the Add button
            in Add Tags panel, the changes are not retained in the Data
            Catalog instance. You have to retag the assets and later click the
                Add button.



When you add one or more tags to the selected entities, the assigned tags are
            displayed having been tagged to the number of selected entities. Another scenario could
            throw a message saying that the selected asset is already tagged.
Propagated Asset tagging
Data Catalog supports the concept of propagated tags. This feature is
                derived from Apache Atlas.
Whenever you add a new tag, you can mark them as propagated and use those tags
                accordingly while tagging assets. 



For example, consider table1 as a parent asset and
                    table2 as a child asset. Create a tag and mark that tag
                as propagated, and later apply the same tag to
                    table1. The tag gets applied to
                    table2 as well. Propagated tag works on the basis of
                    parent -> child tagging relationship.




noteWhen you delete or remove the propagated tag from the parent asset, the same
                    tag is removed from all the child assets. 
noteThe propagated tag concept is not supported with
                        child -> parent relationships.



