Viewing Atlas Entity AuditsCloudera Docs
Viewing Atlas Entity Audits
In Data Catalog, Atlas audits help Data Stewards to identify
        and track the entity changes or modifications that are performed over a period of time. 
Information about the Atlas entity audit events are displayed for each entity in the
                Asset Details page in Data Catalog. Using this information,
            Data Stewards can distinguish between entity audits and data audits that emanate from
            Ranger.
On the Asset Details page, a new tab called
                Metadata Audits displays information related to the selected
            entity type and about the events that occurred based on the user activities.



Clicking on Metadata Audits, tab, you can view manage information
            about:

The user who made the changes to the specific entity
The time when the entity was changed
The kind of change that was made to the entity
Any other relevant changes pertaining to the audit entries

The changes that can be identified for:

Created entities and related updates
Tagged entities
Labeled entities
Export and Import operations

For example, the following image displays information about the Atlas audit
            events that are performed by each Atlas user that is displayed in the Asset
                Details page in Data Catalog.



Clicking on any line item displays the JSON format, which is
            directly derived from Atlas, in other words the source of data available in Atlas.



Use the toggle icon (on the top-right corner) for viewing Atlas Audits in
            different formats. By default, you can view Metadata Audits in
            tabular format in the Asset Details page and when you toggle the
            view icon, you can view the Timeline format. The events are
            listed as timelines in this format.



Clicking on a user in the Timeline format displays the
            JSON data, which is again derived from Atlas.




Parent topic: Viewing Data Asset Details