Creating Custom Profiler RulesCloudera Docs
Creating Custom Profiler Rules
You can create a custom profiler by adding the required tags, regex entries, and
        attaching whitelist or blacklist files to specific columns within your tables. 

On the Profilers page, click Tag Rules.

On the Tag Rules tab, click New
                    to create a new profiler tag rule.

Enter the name of the new custom profiler tag rule.

Enter the description for the custom tag rule.

Select the Tags. You can select tags from the drop down list and or enter a new value to create a new tag. 
New tags that you create here are added with a dp_ prefix in the list of Atlas tags. For example, if you add a new tag called credit_card, this tag will be added as dp_credit_card in Atlas.

Enter the rule for the column name. As you enter the values, regex name and resource names are auto populated. Select the column that is needed for your custom profiler.

Enter the column value for the DSL.
 Based on your entry, Data Catalog auto populates values from the
                    entries already available in the Resources tab. You can use a combination of
                    regex entries and whitelist or blacklist files and other behaviors. For more
                    information about behaviors, see DSL Grammar. 

Click Save and Validate.


In the validation pop up window that appears, enter data to validate your
                    custom profiler tag rule. Make sure you separate each data entry with a new
                    line.

Click Save to create a tag rule and validate and deploy it later.


Adding Custom Regular ExpressionsTo use custom regex entries within your new custom profiler tag rules, you can also         add new regex values. Adding Lookup FilesWhen you have too many allowed and denied entries and cannot add them inline, you can         create allowed or denied files with one value in each line and add them to your DSL. Using BehaviorsYou can use various behaviors to take single inputs of type text and evaluate them to a Boolean value.Using DSL GrammarUsing DSL grammar, you can combine different behaviours in intuitive ways to bring out     a functionality while creating custom profiler rules.