Create DatasetsCloudera Docs
Create Datasets
You can group data assets into Datasets. This enables you to organize data based on
      business classifications, purpose, protection requirements, or more. Examples of Datasets are:
      customer profiles, sales assets, financials, PII, and HR data. 
From the Datasets page, click Add
                  Datasets. 
The Add page appears.
Enter the following information.




Field Name


Description


Example Values





Name


Enter an appropriate dataset name. This name cannot be duplicated
                                 across the system. (Mandatory)


Customer Profiles, Sales Assets, Financials




Description


Describe the purpose or intent of the dataset. (Mandatory)


Contains customer profiles: data assets for US and WW.




Datalake


Assign the dataset to one Datalake. Choose from a list of available
                                 Datalakes. (Mandatory)


dss_bbsh_clust3




Tags


Add tags to your dataset for context and subsequent lookup. Tags
                                 enable your to quickly catalog, search and retrieve asset
                                 collections as well as share such information with others in the
                                 future. (Optional)


se, pii, geo, finance




Public/Private


Select public if you want other users to have access to this
                                 dataset. Select private if only you want to have access to this
                                 dataset.
note You can later change the status of the asset collection. Click
                                 the lock icon on the Dataset Details page to change the access
                                 state of the dataset. 







Click Next. 
The Dataset Details page appears for the new dataset.

Click Add Assets to add related data assets into your
               dataset. 
 The Asset Search page appears. 
Search for assets using Basic Search.

Search using the name of the asset by entering the name in the search bar. 
Use filters to search for specific assets based on the attributes of assets. 
            Click Filter to display the filters available.


Created Time: From the dropdown list, select the time to refine the search on the basis of when the asset has been created.
Owner: Enter the name of the owner to refine the search on the basis of the owners of the assets.
DB Name: Enter the name of the database.
Tag: Enter the names of the tags.



Select one more than one filter if needed. 
Click Search to view the assets. The Results appear.

Click Reset to reset the filters and search
                     again.


From the list, click to select the assets that you like to add to your
                     dataset.


Search for assets using Advanced Search, if needed. Advanced search uses facets of technical and business metadata about the assets, such as those captured in Apache Atlas, to help users define and build collections of interest. 
            Advanced search conditions are a subset of attributes for the Apache Atlas type hive_table.
Click Done. 
The assets are added to the dataset and the Search page is refreshed.Close the Search tab. 
The Datasets Details page appears.Click Save.

Parent topic: Managing Datasets