Deleting profiler clusterCloudera Docs
Deleting profiler cluster
Deleting profiler cluster removes all the Custom Sensitivity Profiler rules
        and other updates to the specific cluster. It could also cause loss of data specific to
        currently applied rules on the deleted profiler cluster.
To overcome this situation, when you decide to delete the profiler cluster, there
            is a provision to retain the status of the Custom Sensitivity Profiler rules. If your
            profiler cluster has rules that are not changed or updated, you can directly delete the
            profiler cluster. If the rules were modified or updated, you have an option to download
            the modified rules along with deletion. The modified rules consist of the suspended
            System rules and the deployed Custom rules.Using the downloaded rules, you can manually
            add or modify them to your newly added profiler cluster.

On the search page, select the Data Lake from the list.

Click Actions drop-down menu and select
                        Delete Cluster. 

Click Yes to proceed.
The application displays the following message.






When you upgrade / launch Data Catalog service in Cloudera Runtime version
                            7.2.14, and later if the profiler cluster is
                        deleted, the following message is displayed.






noteUsing Data Catalog with Cloudera Runtime version
                                7.2.12 and below, and later when you delete a
                            profiler cluster that has modified Custom Sensitivity
                                Profiler rules, the following message is
                            displayed.






While using Data Catalog with Cloudera Runtime version
                            7.2.12 and below, and if the profiler cluster
                        does not have any modified Custom Sensitivity Profiler rules, the following
                        message is displayed.











The profiler cluster is deleted successfully.
Aditionally, note that you can delete the profiler cluster in these
                        situations, when:
Profiler cluster is up and running 
Profiler cluster is created but stopped
Profiler cluster creation failed but is registered with the data
                                lake
Profiler cluster is down and inaccessible

noteIf the profiler cluster is not registered with the data lake, Data Catalog
                        cannot locate or trace the profiler cluster. Users have to delete the
                        profiler cluster from the DataHub page (Cloudera Management Console).



Parent topic: Managing Profilers