Edit Profiler ConfigurationCloudera Docs
Edit Profiler Configuration
In addition to turning on and off the profiler configurations, the individual
        profilers can be run with their own execution parameters. These parameters are for
        submission of the profiler job onto Spark. You can edit the configuration of profilers and update these parameters to run profiler jobs.

Click Profilers in the main navigation menu on the
                    left.

Click Configs to view all of configured profilers.
Select the cluster for which you need to edit profiler configuration.

The list of profilers for the selected clusters is displayed.

Click the name of the profiler whose configuration you wish to edit.

The Profiler Configuration tab is displayed in the right panel.


Select a schedule to run the profiler. This is implemented as a quartz cron
                    expression.
For more information, see Understanding Cron Expression generator.

Select Last Run Check.

Last Run Check configuration enables profilers like Hive Column
                        Statistics and Cluster Sensitivity Profiler to avoid profiling
                    the same asset on each scheduled run. If you have scheduled a cron job, say for
                    about an hour, and have enabled the Last Run Check configuration for two
                    days, this set-up ensures that the job scheduler filters out any asset which was
                    already profiled in the last two days. 
If the Last Run Check configuration is disabled,
                    assets will be picked up for profiling as per the job cron schedule, honouring
                    the asset filter rules, if any.
cautionThis configuration is not applicable to the Ranger Audit
                        Profiler.
Update the advanced options.


Number of Executors - Enter the number of executors to launch for running this profiler.
Executor Cores - Enter the number of cores to be used for each executor.
Executor Memory - Enter the amount of memory in GB to be used per executor process.
Driver Cores - Enter the number of cores to be used for the driver process. 
Driver Memory - Enter the memory to be used for the driver processes.


For more information, see Configuring SPARK on YARN Applications
                    and Tuning Resource Allocation.
Toggle the state of the profiler from Active to Inactive as needed.Click Save to apply the configuration changes to the selected profiler. The changes should appear in the profiler description.

Additional Configuration for Cluster Sensitivity ProfilerIn addition to the generic configuration, there are additional parameters for the       Cluster Sensitivity Profiler that can optionally be edited.Additional Configuration for Hive Column ProfilerIn addition to the generic configuration, there are additional parameters for the       Hive Column Profiler that can optionally be edited.Understanding Cron Expression generatorA cron expression details about when the schedule executes and visualizes the next         execution dates of your cron expression. The cron expression utilizes the quartz engine. Setting Asset filter rulesAdd Asset filter rules as needed to customize the selection and deselection of assets         which the profiler profiles. Parent topic: Managing Profilers