Prerequisites for accessing Hue tables and databasesCloudera Docs
Prerequisites for accessing Hue tables and databases 
Hue is a part of the CDW service. Before you can access Hue from Data Catalog, you
        must set up the CDW service.

You must have the DWAdmin role to perform these tasks.


An AWS or Azure environment in CDW that has been activated and registered in
                    the CDP Management Console.
Activating an AWS or Azure environment in CDW enables the CDW service to use
                    the existing Data Lakes that are present in the CDP environment. This also
                    creates a default Database Catalog that is used by a Virtual Warehouse.For
                        more information, see Activating AWS environments or
                            Activating Azure environments.
                        Currently, CDW only supports AWS and Azure Cloud environments

A Hive or an Impala Virtual Warehouse created using CDW. Depending on your data
                    set type, create a Hive or an Impala Virtual Warehouse using CDW. 
For more information, see Adding a new Virtual Warehouse.

Select the asset type in the Data Catalog UI.

The asset type must be either hive_table or hive_db.


After these conditions are met, Hue links for the selected assets are
                        displayed in the Data Catalog UI.





Accessing Hue tables and databasesWhen you log into Data Catalog, you can access web links to the Hue instances from         the Data Catalog Search page or the Asset Details page.Accessing Hue tables and databases from the search pageWhen you log into Data Catalog, you can access web links to the Hue instances from         the Data Catalog Search page.Accessing Hue tables and databases from the Asset Details pageWhen you log into Data Catalog, you can access web links to the Hue instances from         the Data Catalog Search Asset Details page.Log into Cloudera Data CatalogAccessing Hue assetsWhen you are on the Data Catalog search page or the Asset Details page, to access Hue         assets, an external link button is used.Parent topic: Navigating to tables and databases in Hue