Tracking Profiler JobsCloudera Docs
Tracking Profiler Jobs
The Data Catalog profiler page is updated to provide a better
        user experience for tracking respective profiler jobs.
A new placeholder named “Schedule” is introduced under
            the Profilers section to provide tracking information of each
            profiler job. Under Schedule, you can find the type of profiler
            job that has run or in progress or has completed profiling data assets.



For each profiler job, you can view the details about:

Job Status
Type
Job ID
Start Time
Stage 
Job Queue
Total assets profiled




Using this data can help you to troubleshoot failed jobs or even understand how
            the jobs were profiled and other pertinent information that can help you to manage your
            profiled assets. Whenever the Schedule status appears in green, it indicates that the
            profiler job has run successfully. When the color appears in blue and red, it indicates
            that the profiler job is running or has failed.
Profiler job runs in three phases:

Scheduler Service - Part of Profiler Admin which
                queues the profiler requests.
Livy - This service is managed by
                    YARN and where the actual asset profiling takes
                place.
Metrics Service - Reads the profiled data files and
                publishes them.


noteMore than one occurrence of Scheduler Service or
                    Livy indicates that there could be more assets to be
                profiled. For example, if a HBase schedule has about 80
                assets to be profiled, the first 50 assets would be profiled in the first Livy batch
                and the other assets get profiled in the next batch.

Clicking on each profiled asset would navigate to the profiled asset details
            page. The asset profiled page provides information about the profiled asset, profiled
            status, the profiled job id, and other relevant details.
In case of Ranger Audit profiling, there could be a
                “NA” status for the total number of assets profiled. It
            indicates that the auditing that happens is dependent on the Ranger policies. In other
            words, the Ranger policies are actually profiled and not the assets.
Important: Currently, the
                On-Demand schedule is not supported for this version of the
            profiler. The job schedule is either greyed out or disabled in such a scenario.

Parent topic: Managing Profilers