Viewing Data Asset DetailsCloudera Docs
Viewing Data Asset Details
      
The Asset Details page
      comprises four tabs (Overview, Schema, Policy, and Audit).
To access the Asset Details page, click an asset in the Data Catalog Search page.
            This brings you to the Overview tab, the first of the four tabs that form
         the Asset Details page.


Overview: Displays an overview for the data asset.

Table properties: Number of rows, number of columns, number of
                  partitions, owner, and tags
Lineage: Shows the chain of custody for the data from relevant metadata
                  repositories such as Apache Atlas. Lineage shows both upstream paths (lineage)
                  into and downstream paths (impact) out of a given asset.


Schema: Displays the schema of the data asset for structured data (such as Hive tables)
            from the relevant metadata repositories (such as Atlas).

Policy: The policy view shows security (authorization) policies defined on assets
               such as those present in Apache Ranger. It includes both resource (physical asset
               based) as well as classification based policies


Audit: The data asset audit logs page shows the most recent access audits from
               Apache Ranger.



Viewing Data Assets The Data Asset Overview page displays all the Apache Atlas       metadata associated with a particular data asset. View Data Asset SchemaFrom the Asset Details Schema page, you can view the schema of the data asset for structured data (such as Hive       tables) from the relevant metadata repositories (such as Atlas).Navigating from the container asset to the parent asset from Asset Details pageA generic Assets Details page is available for container data         types like buckets and databases. View Authorization Policies on a Data AssetThe Asset Details Policy page displays all the Apache Ranger policy details associated with a particular data       asset. This helps you understand how data access is secured and protected: what users can see       what data (or metadata) under what conditions (security policies, data protection, and       anonymization). View Data Asset Audit LogsThe Asset Details Audit page displays all the Apache Ranger audit events associated with a particular data       asset. This helps you to view who has accessed what data from a forensic audit or compliance       perspective, and to visualize access patterns and identify anomalies.Navigation Support for Hive entity within LineageWhen you click a Hive entity within lineage, the Asset Details         page of the selected Hive entity is displayed. Adding Hive asset to one or more datasets on Asset Details screenOn the Asset Details screen, users are provided with an option         to add the asset to the dataset as shown in the diagram.Viewing Atlas Entity AuditsIn Data Catalog, Atlas audits help Data Stewards to identify         and track the entity changes or modifications that are performed over a period of time. 