List of required configuration parameters for the JDBC to JDBC ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
List of required configuration parameters for the
      JDBC to JDBC ReadyFlow
When deploying the JDBC to JDBC ReadyFlow, you have to provide the following parameters. Use the
  information you collected in Prerequisites.
Table 1. JDBC to JDBC ReadyFlow configuration parameters

Parameter name
Description



Destination Database Connection URL
Specify the JDBC database connection URL used to connect to your destination database.
       May contain database system name, host, port, database name and some parameters. The exact
       syntax of a database connection URL is specified by your DBMS, for example,
       jdbc:mysql://hostname:port/database for MySQL databases.


Destination Database Driver
Upload the database driver jar file for your destination database.


Destination Database Driver Class Name
Specify the destination database driver class name. For example, com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
       for MySQL databases.


Destination Database Password
Specify the destination database password.


Destination Database Table Name
Specify the destination database table name.


Destination Database User
Specify the destination database user.


Filter Rule
Specify the filter rule expressed in SQL to filter database records. Records matching
       the filter are written to the destination. The default value forwards all records.


Source Database Connection URL
Specify the JDBC database connection URL used to connect to your source database. May
       contain database system name, host, port, database name and some parameters. The exact syntax
       of a database connection URL is specified by your DBMS, for example,
       jdbc:mysql://hostname:port/database for MySQL databases.


Source Database Driver
Upload the database driver jar file for your source database.


Source Database Driver Class Name
Specify the source database driver class name. For example, com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
       for MySQL databases.


Source Database Incremental Fetch Column
Specify the column that should be used to track state as new data lands in the source
       table.


Source Database Password
Specify the source database password.


Source Database Table Name
Specify the source database table name.


Source Database User
Specify the source database user.



Related conceptsPrerequisitesRelated informationDeploying a ReadyFlow