Understand the use caseCloudera Docs
Understand the use case
Learn how you can use a Flow Management cluster in  CDP Public Cloud to build a flow
    that ingests data to Google Cloud Storage (GCS). This example use case shows you how to use
    Apache NiFi to move data into GCS buckets.
Why move data to object stores?
Cloud environments offer numerous deployment options and services. There are many ways to
        store data in the cloud, but the easiest option is to use object stores. Object stores are
        extremely robust and cost-effective storage solutions with multiple levels of durability and
        availability. You can include them in your data pipeline, both as an intermediate step and
        as an end state. Object stores are accessible to many tools and connecting systems, and you
        have a variety of options to control access.

Apache NiFi for cloud ingestion
As a part of Cloudera Data Flow in CDP Public Cloud, Flow Management clusters run Apache
        NiFi. You can use  NiFi to move data from a range of locations into object stores. NiFi
        supports data transfer from nearly any type of data source to cloud storage solutions in a
        secure and governed manner. It also offers a scalable solution for managing data flows with
        guaranteed delivery, data buffering / pressure release, and prioritized queuing.
NiFi helps you to build a cloud ingestion data flow in a quick and user-friendly way, by
        simply dragging and dropping a series of processors on the NiFi user interface. When the
        data flow is ready, you can visually monitor and control the pipeline you have built.
This use case walks you through the steps associated with creating an ingest-focused data
        flow by tailing the NiFi log files and sending the data into a GCS bucket. If you are moving
        data from a different source, see the Getting Started with Apache NiFi for
        information about how to build a data flow, and about other data get and
          consume processor options.


Related informationGetting Started with Apache NiFiIngesting Data into Apache KafkaIngesting Data into Apache HBaseIngesting data into Apache HiveIngesting Data into Apache KuduIngesting Data into Azure Data Lake StorageIngesting Data into Amazon S3Parent topic: Ingesting data into Google Cloud Storage
