Configure the processor for your data targetCloudera Docs
Configure the processor for your data target
This example use case shows you two options for ingesting data to Google Cloud
    Storage (GCS). Learn how you can configure these data NiFi processors for your GCS ingest
    flow.

Launch the Configure Processor window by right clicking the
          processor you added for writing data to GCS (PutHDFSor
            PutGCSObject) and selecting
          Configure.This gives you a configuration dialog with
          the following tabs: Settings, Scheduling,
            Properties, Comments.Configure the processor according to the behavior you expect in your data
          flow.
Make sure that you set all required properties, as you cannot start the processor until
            all mandatory properties have been configured.
When you have finished configuring the options you need, save the changes by
          clicking Apply.
The following properties are used for PutHDFS:
Table 1. PutHDFS processor properties

Property
Description
Example value for ingest data flow




Hadoop Configuration Resources


Specify the path to the core-site.xml configuration file. 
Make sure that the default file system (fs, default.FS) points to the GCS
                      bucket you are writing to.
noteThe core-site.xml file used for the Hadoop Configuration
                      Resources property is present on every Flow Management cluster. Cloudera
                      Manager stores the right core-site.xml file in the same
                        /etc directory for every cluster.


/etc/hadoop/conf.cloudera.core_settings/core-site.xml




Kerberos Principal


Specify the Kerberos principal (your username) to authenticate against
                      CDP.


srv_nifi-gcs-ingest




Kerberos Password


Provide the password that should be used for authenticating with
                      Kerberos.


password




Directory


Provide the path to your target directory in Google Cloud expressed in a GCS
                      compatible path. It can also be relative to the path specified in the
                        core-site.xml file.


gs://your path/customer 




You can leave all other properties as default configurations.
For a complete list of PutHDFS properties, see the processor
              documentation.
If you want to use the PutGCSObject processor to store the
            data in Google Cloud Storage, you have to configure your processor to reference the
            controller service you configured before:

 If you want to move data to a different location, review the other use cases in the
              Cloudera Data Flow for Data Hub library.

Your data flow is ready to ingest data into Google Cloud Storage. Start the
      flow.

Related informationConfiguring a processorApache NiFi DocumentationData ingest use cases in Cloudera Data Flow for Data HubParent topic: Ingesting data into Google Cloud Storage
