Kafka Connect in SMMCloudera Docs
Kafka Connect in SMM
Get started with Kafka Connect in SMM.
Kafka Connect is a tool for streaming data between Apache Kafka
        and other systems in a reliable and scalable fashion. Kafka Connect makes it simple to
        quickly define connectors that move large collections of data into and out of Kafka. Source
        connectors can ingest entire databases or collect metrics from all your application servers
        into Kafka topics, making the data available for stream processing with low latency. Sink
        connectors can deliver data from Kafka topics into secondary storage and query systems or
        into batch systems for offline analysis.
Kafka Connect in CDP is shipped with many different
        Cloudera developed as well as publicly available sink and source connectors. Each of which
        cover a specific use case for streaming data. In addition to the connectors available by
        default, installing custom developed or third-party connectors is also possible. All
        connectors can be deployed, managed, and monitored using the Streams Messaging Manager UI
        (recommended), Streams Messaging Manager REST API, or Kafka Connect REST API.
The following sections walk you through the Kafka Connect related pages of the SMM UI and
            give an introduction to the basics of connector management and monitoring. For a
            comprehensive list of connectors shipped in CDP, as well as deatailed instructions on
            how to install connectors, see Connectors.

Related informationConnectors
The Kafka Connect UI
Learn about the Kafka Connect section in the SMM UI, which you can use to deploy,
    manage, and monitor Kafka Connect connectors.
The 
Connect section in SMM is your main hub in CDP where you deploy, manage,
      and monitor Kafka Connect connectors. This section of the UI is only available if you deployed
      Kafka Connect role instances under your Kafka service and SMM is configured to integrate with
      Kafka Connect. For detailed instructions on how to set up Kafka Connect and integrate it with
      SMM, see Kafka Connect Setup. 


Clicking  Connect, opens the Connect
        Cluster page with the Connectors tab open. This is the
      default page of the Kafka Connect UI. It provides a high level overview of the connectors and
      the connect cluster.



At the top-right corner of the Connect Cluster page, you can see the
      name of the cluster. The 
New Connector option below the cluster name starts the
        Connector Setup wizard, which you use to deploy connectors in your
      cluster. For detailed steps on how to deploy a new connector, see Deploying and Managing
        connectors .
The Connectors section provides some basic metrics regarding Kafka
      Connect including total connectors, running connectors, failed connectors, degraded
      connectors, and paused connectors. Under the Connectors section you can
      find two tabs, Connectors and Cluster Profile.
      The two tabs enable you to monitor and manage your connectors and the connect cluster.
 Connectors tab
In the Connectors tab, you can view details of the source connectors,
      topics, and sink connectors in the cluster. The Source Connectors and
        Sink Connectors sections show all, running, paused, and failed
      connectors with connector name and associated task details. Both Source
        Connectors and Sink Connectors sections contain a
        Search option that enables you to search for particular connector
      details. The Topics section shows the Kafka topics where data is read
      from or written to. 
Hovering over a specific connector displays a context menu where you can view the class name
      and status of the connector. The context menu also provides quick options to pause, resume,
      and restart the connector. Clicking on any of your deployed connectors or topics visualizes
      how the data is flowing into or out of the selected entities. 


Cluster Profile tab
In the Cluster Profile tab, you can view details of the connect
      cluster and the workers. The tab includes information regarding your cluster such as the
      Cloudera Manager URL, the number of workers deployed in the cluster, as well as an uptime
      counter. Additionally, the Workers section lists all worker hosts
      available in the cluster. This section includes basic worker-level information, such as how
      many connectors are deployed on a worker, success and failure rates, and more.



If you click the  option found
      next to each host, additional details and metrics are displayed that are specific to the
      worker host you selected. The information includes a list of connectors assigned to the
      worker, as well detailed connector, task, and worker rebalance metrics. Using the
        Search by host field, you can search for worker details by host.
      Additionally, you can filter the list of connectors deployed on the worker host based on their
      status.



The Connector Profile
After you deploy a connector, you can monitor the details of the connector, modify its
        configuration, and carry out various management actions. 
To monitor or manage a specific connector, click 
        (Connector Profile) next to the connector's name. Clicking the icon
        redirects you to the Connector Profile page of the selected connector.
        The Connector Profile page enables you to monitor the details of the
        connector, monitor and manage its tasks, and edit its configuration. The page consists of
        two tabs Connector Profile and Connector
        Settings.
Connector Profile tab

The Connector Profile tab enables you to monitor details of the
        connector and its tasks. Additionally, a few basic management options are also
          available.


This tab is organized into multiple sections. The various sections enable you to do the
          following:
The Connector Profile section provides you with details regarding
            the Classname, Assigned Worker, Status, Total Tasks, Running Tasks, Failed Tasks, and
            Paused Tasks.
In the Tasks section, you can view and monitor Status, Worker ID,
            Task ID, and various other details regarding connector tasks. Clicking  next to a task displays
              detailed information and metrics about the selected task. In addition to viewing
              status and metrics, the Tasks section also allows you to restart
              a particular task. This can be done by selecting the task you want to restart and
              clicking the Restart option found within the
                Tasks section. The Search by host option
              enables you to search for particular task details by host.
Using the buttons in the top right-hand corner you can pause, resume, restart, and
            delete the connector, or deploy a new connector.

Connector Settings tab

The Connector Settings tab enables you to review and edit the
        configuration of the connector. By default editing the connector configuration is disabled.
        To enabled editing, click  Edit in the bottom left-hand corner. In addition to
        reconfiguring the connector, you can pause, resume, restart, and delete the connector, or
        deploy a new connector with the buttons in the top right-hand corner of the page. tipThe Connector Settings tab is
          identical in functionality to the Connector Configuration page in
            the Connector Setup wizard. For detailed information on the various
          options and features available related to configuration, see Connector configuration
            features in SMM.




Related informationKafka Connect SetupConnectorsDeploying and managing Kafka Connect connectors in SMMConnector configuration features in SMM