Deploying and managing Kafka Connect connectors in SMMCloudera Docs
Deploying and managing Kafka Connect connectors in SMM
Learn how to use the SMM UI to deploy new Kafka Connect connectors using the Connector
  Setup wizard, as well as how to reconfigure, pause, resume, restart, and delete existing
  connectors. Additionally, learn about the various features and options SMM provides for editing
  connector configurations.

Deploying a Kafka Connect connector in SMM
Kafka Connect connectors are deployed in SMM using the Connector Setup wizard. Learn
        how to deploy a new connector using the wizard.


By default, you can use the Connector Setup wizard to deploy any connector that
                    is shipped with Cloudera Runtime. The only exceptions are the FileStream example
                    connectors (FileStreamSourceConnector and FileStreamSinkConnector). Although
                    these connectors are part of the Kafka distribution and are shipped with
                    Cloudera Runtime, they are not available by default in the Connector Setup
                    wizard. This is because neither connector is considered production ready. If you
                    want to deploy an instance of these connectors, you must install them first. For
                    more information, see Installing Kafka Connect
                    connectors.
Third-party connectors can be deployed using the wizard, but must be installed
                    first. For more information, see Installing Kafka Connect
                    connectors.
Before deploying any connector, Cloudera recommends that you review the
                    documentation of the connector. For more information regarding each connector
                    shipped in CDP, see Connectors.
If you are deploying a NiFi Stateless Source or Sink
                    connector, Cloudera recommends that you review Stateless NiFi Source and Sink. This
                    recommendation holds true if you are deploying your own, custom developed
                    dataflow, or if you want to deploy any of the connectors included in CDP that
                    are powered by Stateless NiFi. 



Click 
Connect in the navigation sidebar.

Click the  New Connector option.
This option is available on all Kafka Connect related pages of the SMM UI.
                    Clicking this option starts the Connector Setup wizard and
                    redirects you to the Select A Template page. This page
                    contains all connectors available for deployment in the form of selectable
                        cards.

 Each card includes the following information about the connector:
The connector's fully qualified class name. 
The connector's display name. If no display name is available,
                            the card includes the unqualified classname.
The version of the connector.
By default, the page includes all connectors shipped with Cloudera Runtime.
                    Third-party connectors that you install manually are also visible on this page
                    following installation.

Select a connector from the Source Templates or
                        Sink Templates section.
The Connector Configuration page appears.

Most connectors shipped with Cloudera Runtime come with a default
                    configuration template to ease configuration. If a template is available for a
                    specific connector, the property keys and values are automatically populated
                    when you select the connector. The properties and values included in the
                    templates depend on the selected connector. In general, the templates include
                    all mandatory properties that are required for successful deployment. However,
                    most connectors also have a number of additional properties that might not be
                    part of the template. As a result, Cloudera recommends that you always review
                    the documentation for the specific connector that you want to deploy. 

Configure the properties of the connector.
The Connector Configuration page includes various
                    features and options that you can use to configure your connector. Each row in
                    the Properties section represents the key and value of a
                    property. Using the different buttons and other options available, you can add,
                    delete, import, or otherwise modify the configuration. For more details on the
                    configuration features available on this page, see Connector configuration
                        features in SMM.

Click Validate after you are done configuring the
                    connector.
Validating the configuration is mandatory when you deploy or modify a
                    connector. If SMM finds any errors in the configuration, the properties that
                    contain errors are highlighted in red, and an error message with the details
                    regarding the configuration issue is displayed. Resolve any errors until
                    validation passes.

Click Next.
The Next option is disabled until validation passes.
                    After you click Next, the Configuration
                        Review page appears.



Review your connector configuration.
The Configuration Review page allows you to review the
                    connector configuration. Use this page to ensure that all properties are
                    correctly configured for your use case. Most configuration options are
                        disabled on this page. However, you can use the search and filtering options
                        to search for properties. Additionally, you can export the connector
                        configuration for later use with Actions > Export. If you find any errors, go back to the Connector
                            Configuration page, make any necessary changes, and
                        revalidate the configuration before continuing.

Click Deploy to deploy the connector.
After you click Deploy, the Connector
                        Deployment Status modal is displayed that shows the status of the
                    deployment. 

noteConnector deployment is not instantaneous. You might
                        need to wait a few seconds for deployment to finish.





After the connector is deployed, you can monitor the
            connector on the Connect Cluster page or the connector's profile
            page. For more information, see The Kafka Connect UI.

Related informationConnectorsStreams Messaging ReferenceThe Kafka Connect UIConnector configuration features in SMM
Pausing, resuming, restarting, and deleting a Kafka Connect connector in SMM
Learn how to pause, resume, restart, or delete an existing Kafka Connect Connector in
        SMM.

Click 
Connect in the navigation sidebar.

Identify the connector you want to manage.

Click 
                    (Profile) beside the connector.

Click 
                        Pause,  Resume, 
                        Restart, or  Delete.
If you select  Delete, you must confirm the action
                    in a pop-up window.tipThe 
                            Pause,  Resume, and Restart options are also available if you hover over the
                        connector on the Connect Cluster page.


Related informationConnectorsStreams Messaging ReferenceThe Kafka Connect UI
Reconfiguring Kafka Connect connectors in SMM
Learn how to edit the configuration of a running Kafka Connect connector using the
        SMM UI.

Click 
Connect in the navigation sidebar.

Identify the connector you want to modify.

Click 
                    (Profile) beside the connector.

Go to the Connector Settings tab.

Click 
                        Edit at the bottom-left corner of the page.
All properties except connector name become editable.



Configure the properties of the connector.
The Connector Settings page includes various features
                    and options that you can use to configure your connector. Each row in the
                        Properties section represents the key and value of a
                    property. Using the different buttons and other options available, you can add,
                    delete, import, or otherwise modify the configuration. For more details on the
                    configuration features available on this page, see Connector configuration
                        features in SMM.

Click Validate after you are done configuring the
                    connector.
Validating the configuration is mandatory when you deploy or modify a
                    connector. If SMM finds any errors in the configuration, the properties that
                    contain errors are highlighted in red, and an error message with the details
                    regarding the configuration issue is displayed. Resolve any errors until
                    validation passes.

Click Update .


Related informationConnectorsStreams Messaging ReferenceThe Kafka Connect UIConnector configuration features in SMM
Connector configuration features in SMM
Learn about the various configuration features and options that you can use when
  configuring Kafka Connect connectors in SMM.
The SMM UI includes two pages where you configure Kafka Connect connector properties. The
    Connector Configuration step of the Connector Setup
   wizard and the Connector Profile > Connector Settings tab. Both pages include various features and options that are designed to help you
   with connector configuration. The following sections go over each of the configuration options
   available on the UI. 
note The only difference between Connector
    Configuration and Connector Settings is that the former is used
   to configure new connectors, the latter is used to reconfigure already running connectors.
   Otherwise, the two pages are identical in functionality.
Configuring properties
Each row on the Connector Configuration page represents the key (name)
    and configuration value of a specific property. You can use the icons next to each property to
    add or remove properties. Clicking  next to a property opens a context menu that includes additional
    configuration options. The options available in the  context menu depend on the property. For example, you can edit and
    reset the connector.class property, but you cannot configure its type.




Adding properties
Click  to add a new
      property. An empty row appears for the new property. Enter property keys in the left field and
      property values in the right field. When you select a key field, a list of suggested
      properties appear that are valid for the connector. The list is automatically filtered when
      you start typing.
Deleting properties
Click  to delete a property.
      Use Actions > Remove to remove all properties from the configuration with the exception of
       connector.class.
Editing properties
Click 
       Edit to edit the configuration value of a property in a separate window. Use this
      option if the value you add is long, complex, or consists of multiple lines.If you are
       deploying a NiFi Stateless Sink or Source connector, the modal that opens with  for the
        flow.snapshot property is unique and includes the
        Browse... and Save and Enhance options.
        Browse... enables you to upload a flow definition JSON from your
       machine, Save and Enhance adds the parameters specified in your flow
       definition to the connector configuration. For more information on
        flow.snapshot configuration, see Configuring flow.snapshot for
        Stateless NiFi connectors.
Resetting properties
You can use  Reset value to reset the value of a single property.
      Alternatively, you can use Actions > Reset to reset the full configuration. The reset options behave uniquely depending on
      the configuration page that you use them on. When deploying new connectors using the
        Connector Configuration page of the wizard:
 Reset
          value resets the value to the default value set in the configuration template.
         This option is not available for properties that are not part of the template.
Actions > Reset resets all configuration properties and reverts the configuration to the
         default configuration template.
When editing the configuration of existing connectors on the Connector Profile > Connector Settings page:
 Reset
          value resets the value to the last value that the connector was deployed with.
         This option is not available for new properties that you add to the configuration while
         editing the configuration.
Actions > Reset resets all configuration properties and reverts to the configuration that
         the connector was last deployed with.

Type configuration
The  String
      , 
       Boolean,  Number, and  Password options enable you to set the type of the
      property. Setting the type of a property changes the property's value field depending on the
      type you select.
 String
         sets the type of the property to string and changes the input field to a single
        line text box.

         Number sets the type to number and changes the input field to a text box that
        only allows negative and positive whole numbers and decimals.

         Boolean sets the type of the property to boolean and changes the input field to
        a checkbox.

         Password sets the type of the property to password. Selecting
           
          Password hides (locks) the value on the UI and stores it in a secure manner.
         Once the connector is deployed, properties marked as passwords are encrypted and stored
         securely in an internal Kafka topic. The actual values only resolve at runtime. These
         values cannot be retrieved or otherwise read from the configuration of the connector. In
         most cases, you use this option to hide passwords or other types of sensitive credentials
         found in connector configurations, however, you can use this option for any property value
         that your organization considers sensitive.
tipThe password option is the UI implementation of
       the Kafka Connect Secrets storage feature. For more information on the feature, and how Kafka
       Connect handles values you mark as sensitive data, see Kafka Connect Secrets
        Storage.


Property search and filtering
At the top of the page you can find a search bar that you can use to search and filter for
    connector properties. Search only works for property keys, values are disregarded. When you
    search for a string, the Properties section of the page is automatically
    filtered and only the relevant properties are shown. The number of matches is displayed next to
     Properties.
In addition to searching, you can filter properties based on their group and importance. To do
    so, click the filter icon and select the relevant group and importance that you want to search
    for. To clear all applied filters, click Reset Filters.




Viewing property help
Hovering over  (Help), found next
    to some property values, displays information about that property. What information is displayed
    is property dependent, but at minimum you are presented with a description of the property. If
    available, the group, importance, and expected type of a property is also displayed. The  icon is only available for properties
    that have their metadata (description, type, group, and so on) defined.



tipThe information displayed in the help context menu is the
    property metadata defined with ConfigDef. If you are developing your own
    connector and want help information to be available in SMM, ensure that you define property
    metadata in your connector code using the ConfigDef class. Additionally, if
    you specify a display name for the property in ConfigDef, SMM will print the
    display name above the key field of the property.

Importing configurations
To import a configuration, click Actions > Import. Clicking Import opens the Connector
     Config… modal.



Using the modal you can:

Type or paste your configuration.
Use Browse… to upload the contents of a file from your machine.

The configuration that you add can be a full configuration that contains all properties
    necessary for the connector. Alternatively, it can be a partial configuration that contains a
    select number of properties that you want to add to the configuration. The configuration you
    include in the text box must be in JSON format. For example:
{
  "tasks.max": 1,
  "key.converter": "org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.StringConverter",
  "value.converter": "com.cloudera.dim.kafka.connect.converts.AvroConverter",
  "value.converter.passthrough.enabled": true,
  "value.converter.schema.registry.url": "http://schema-registry:9090/api/v1",
  "topics": "avro_topic",
  .
  .
  .
}
After adding properties, you can use the Import, Import and
     Enhance, or Add options to import the configuration. Each
    option imports the properties in a different way.

Import populates the Properties section with the
     keys and values you added in the Import Connector Config... modal. This
     option overwrites all existing properties in the configuration.
Import and Enhance populates the Properties
     section with the keys and values you added in the Import Connector
      Config... modal. Additionally, properties that are most likely needed for the
     respective connector are also added. Import and Enhance is used
     specifically for the NiFi Stateless Source and NiFi Stateless Sink connectors. When this option
     is used, SMM parses the dataflow specified in flow.snapshot, extracts all
     parameters that are available in the dataflow, and adds them to the connector configuration.
     This option overwrites all existing properties in the configuration.
Add  amends the existing configuration with the properties
     from the Import Connector Config... modal. Use this option if you want to
     batch import additional properties to your configuration. For example, you can use this option
     to batch add security properties.


Exporting Configurations
To export a configuration, click Actions  > Export. Clicking Export opens the Configuration of the
     connector modal. 

Click Copy to Clipboard to copy the configuration to the clipboard. 
Click Export to file to download the configuration as a JSON
     file.





Validating configurations
Before you can deploy or redeploy a connector, you must validate the configuration. This is
    done using Validate. If SMM finds any errors in the configuration, the
    properties that contain errors are highlighted in red, and an error message with the details
    regarding the configuration issue is displayed.
If the configuration is missing a mandatory property, the name of the missing property is
    displayed in an Errors section on the top of the page. You can add missing
    mandatory properties by clicking Add missing configurations.
If the connector configuration is filtered when you run the validation and SMM finds errors
    with properties that are filtered, an error message is displayed on the top of the page
    notifying you that not all validation errors are visible. In a case like this, click
     Reset Filters to view all validation errors.





Related informationConnectorsStreams Messaging ReferenceThe Kafka Connect UIKafka Connect Secrets StorageConfiguring flow.snapshot for Stateless NiFi connectors