Install Apache Zeppelin Using AmbariCloudera Docs
Install Apache Zeppelin
    Using Ambari
How to install Apache Zeppelin on an Ambari-managed cluster.

Install Zeppelin on a node where Spark clients are already installed and
        running. This typically means that Zeppelin will be installed on a gateway or edge node.
Zeppelin requires the following software versions:


HDP 3.0 or later.


Apache Spark 2.0.


Java 8 on the node where Zeppelin is installed.


The optional Livy server provides security features and user
        impersonation support for Zeppelin users. Livy is installed as part of Spark.


After installing Spark, Livy, and Zeppelin, refer to "Configuring
            Zeppelin" in this guide for post-installation steps.



​Install Zeppelin Using Ambari
The Ambari installation wizard sets default values for Zeppelin configuration settings.
        Initially, you should accept the default settings. Later, when you are more familiar with
        Zeppelin, consider customizing the Zeppelin configuration settings.
To install Zeppelin using Ambari, add the Zeppelin service:

Click the ellipsis (…) symbol next to Services on the Ambari dashboard, then
          click Add Service.
On the Add Service Wizard under Choose Services, select Zeppelin Notebook, then
          click Next.
On the Assign Masters page, review the node assignment for Zeppelin Notebook, then click
            Next.
On the Customize Services page, review the default values, then click Next.
If Kerberos is enabled on the cluster, review the principal and keytab settings on the
          Configure Identities page, modify the settings if desired, then click Next.
Review the configuration on the Review page, then click Deploy to begin the
          installation.
The Install, Start, and Test page displays the installation status.
When the progress bar reaches 100% and a "Success" message appears, click
          Next.
On the Summary page, click Complete to finish installing Zeppelin.

To validate the Zeppelin installation, open the Zeppelin Web UI in a browser window. Use
        the port number configured for Zeppelin (9995 by default); for example:
http://<zeppelin-host>:9995
You can also open the Zeppelin Web UI by selecting Zeppelin Notebook > Zeppelin UI
        on the Ambari dashboard.
To check the Zeppelin version number, type the following command on the command line:
/usr/hdp/current/zeppelin-server/bin/zeppelin-daemon.sh --version
Zeppelin stores configuration settings in the /etc/zeppelin/conf
        directory. Note, however, that if your cluster is managed by Ambari you should not modify
        configuration settings directly. Instead, use the Ambari web UI.
Zeppelin stores log files in /var/log/zeppelin on the node where Zeppelin
        is installed.


Parent topic: Installing Zeppelin