Challenges with model governanceCloudera Docs
Challenges with model governance
Businesses implement ML models across their entire organization, spanning a large
  spectrum of usecases. When you start deploying more than just a couple models in production, a lot
  of complex governance and management challenges arise.
Almost all the governance needs for ML are associated with data and are tied directly to the
   data management practice in your organization. For example, what data can be used for certain
   applications, who should be able to access what data, and based on what data are models
   created.
Some of the other unique governance challenges that you could encounter are:


How to gain visibility into the impact your models have on your customers?


How can you ensure you are still compliant with both governmental and internal
     regulations?


How does your organization’s security practices apply to the models in production?
    


Ultimately, the needs for ML governance can be distilled into the following key
   areas: model visibility, and model explainability, interpretability, and reproducibility.

Model visibilityA basic requirement for model governance is enabling teams to understand how machine   learning is being applied in their organizations. This requires a canonical catalog of models in   use. In the absence of such a catalog, many organizations are unaware of how their models work,   where they are deployed, what they are being used for, and so on. This leads to repeated work,   model inconsistencies, recomputing features, and other inefficiencies.Model explainability, interpretability, and reproducibilityModels are often seen as a black box: data goes in, something happens, and a prediction     comes out. This lack of transparency is challenging on a number of levels and is often     represented in loosely related terms explainability, interpretability, and     reproducibility.Model governance using Apache AtlasTo address governance challenges, Cloudera Machile Learning uses Apache Atlas to   automatically collect and visualize lineage information for data used in Machine Learning (ML)   workflows — from training data to model deployments.Parent topic: Challenges with Machine Learning in production