Known Issues and LimitationsCloudera Docs
Known Issues and Limitations



Known Issues with Model Builds and Deployed Models


Re-deploying or re-building models results in model downtime (usually brief).


Re-starting Cloudera Machine Learning does not automatically restart active models.
                These models must be manually restarted so they can serve requests again.
Cloudera Bug: DSE-4950


Model builds will fail if your project filesystem includes a .git
                directory (likely hidden or nested). Typical build stage errors
                include:Error: 2 UNKNOWN: Unable to schedule build: [Unable to create a checkpoint of current source: [Unable to push sources to git server: ...

To work around this, rename the .git directory (for example,
                  NO.git) and re-build the model. 
Cloudera Bug: DSE-4657


JSON requests made to active models should not be more than 5 MB in size. This is
                because JSON is not suitable for very large requests and has high overhead for
                binary objects such as images or video. Call the model with a reference to the image
                or video, such as a URL, instead of the object itself. 


Any external connections, for example, a database connection or a Spark context,
                must be managed by the model's code. Models that require such connections are
                responsible for their own setup, teardown, and refresh. 


Model logs and statistics are only preserved so long as the individual replica is
                active. Cloudera Machine Learning may restart a replica at any time it is deemed
                necessary (such as bad input to the model). 


(MLLib) The MLLib model.save() function fails with the
                following sample error. This occurs because the Spark executors on CML all share a
                mount of /home/cdsw which results in a race condition as multiple
                executors attempt to write to it at the same time. Caused by:
                  java.io.IOException: Mkdirs failed to create
                  file:/home/cdsw/model.mllib/metadata/_temporary ....
Recommended workarounds:
Save the model to /tmp, then move it into
                      /home/cdsw on the driver/session.
Save the model to either an S3 URL or any other explicit external URL.




Limitations


Scala models are not supported.


Spawning worker threads are not supported with models.


Models deployed using Cloudera Machine Learning in the public cloud are highly
                available subject to the following limitations:
Model high availability is dependent on the high availability of the cloud
                    provider's Kubernetes service. Please refer to your chosen cloud provider for
                    precise SLAs.
Model high availability is dependent on the high availability of the cloud
                    provider's load balancer service. Please refer to your chosen cloud provider for
                    precise SLAs.
In the event that the Kubernetes pod running the model proxy service becomes
                    unavailable, the Model may be unavailable for multiple seconds during
                    failover.




Dynamic scaling and auto-scaling are not currently supported. To change the number
                of replicas in service, you will have to re-deploy the build.






Related informationEngines for Experiments and ModelsDistributed Computing with Workers