Showing usage informationCloudera Docs
Showing usage information
Cloudera Data Visualization helps you debug your dashboard performance by providing
        detailed statistics on the rendering and querying operations of the visuals.
You have enabled the following settings in Site Settings >  > Debugging:

 For more information, see Debugging in logs in Site Settings.noteThe Site Settings menu is only
                available to users with administrative privileges.

Open an existing dashboard.

In the Dashboard Designer top menu bar, click the
                        (ellipsis) icon and select Show Usage
                        Info.
Alternatively, you can use the keyboard shortcut Shift + Control + G to open
                    the modal.

The Profile Data modal window is
                        displayed.



You can view the following information on the Profile
                        Data interface:


Profile tab


Download profiles – Click it to download the performance
                                        profile of your dashboard as a text file and save it to your
                                        local system.
Query execution by visual ID – You can use this
                                        visual to check the timeline of each operation.Hover over
                                            one of the time segment lines that represent either the
                                            visual, or additional tasks. The tooltip shows the
                                                Duration, ID, Type,
                                                Detail, and Error statistics.


The ID of the visual is ‘91’ in the above image.
                                                This is the stand-in ID for ancillary tasks Data
                                                Visualization performs when building a
                                                dashboard.
You can hover over a line that represents a visual
                                                ID (in the above example ‘91’), and view the
                                                duration, type, and details of the query performed
                                                on that visual.
To zoom in on a particular time segment, drag to
                                                select the area. You can now drill down to the
                                                details of this time selection. Click Clear Time
                                                Selection to return to the original view. In the
                                                following example 17:02:32.500 is selected.





Query detail – This section shows statistics of all the
                                        visuals and queries in a table.
Time shows the time
                                                when the query operation started.
ID shows the ID of
                                                the visual.
Type shows the
                                                query type: startup, set data result, draw visual,
                                                or table rows processed.
Duration shows the
                                                query execution time, in seconds.
Detail shows the
                                                syntax of the query.
Error shows any errors that
                                                occurred during query execution.



Current Load tab
You can see a summary of active and pending queries. You can also
                                manage your queries: refresh the queries, cancel all your queries,
                                or download the query data.
Counters tab


Rendering Engine – The table shows real-time
                                        statistics for rendering operations on all visuals of the
                                            dashboard:
Average Render Time
Total Render Time
Render Count
Maximum Render Time

Query Engine – The table shows real-time
                                        statistics on the query operations:
Average Query Time
Total Query Time
Query Count
Maximum Query Time
Total Result Rows



Layout tab


Datasets – It shows you the ID of the datasets
                                        used on the dashboard.
Page layout – The widgets show you how the visuals
                                        are arranged on the dashboard and which datasets are
                                        used.
Top left color squares represent datasets.


Queries tab
You can see a list of queries. You can download the query data as a
                                CSV file and save it to your local system.This section shows the
                                    following for each query that was initiated from the dashboard:
                                    
Time shows the time when
                                        the query operation started.
Dataset shows the ID of the
                                        dataset.
Visual shows the ID of the
                                        visual.
Runtime shows the query
                                        execution time in seconds.
Query shows the syntax of the query.
                                        Hovering on the information icon will show this data in a
                                        formatted manner where it can be copied to clipboard.

Historical Logs tab
Historical Logs show the list view for activities on this dashboard.
                                For more information, see List view of Activity
                                Log.
Clone Info tab
Clone Info provides information about the clones of the dashboard.
                                The table on the left shows the ancestor chain, and the table on the
                                right shows the immediate children of the dashboard.



Click DONE to exit the performance Profile
                        Data interface and return to your dashboard.


Related informationDebugging and log in Site SettingsList view of activity log