Monitoring topics to be replicatedCloudera Docs
Monitoring topics to be replicated
You can monitor the number of topics associated with a Kafka cluster replication in the
   Topics column in the Cluster Replications page. You can also
  monitor details on source topic name, partitions, consumer groups, throughput, replication
  latency, and checkpoint latency.
Click on the cluster replication to fetch topic details. SMM displays the following details
   about the topics:
Source Topic NameName of the topic at the source.
PartitionsNumber of partitions of the topic at the source.
Consumer GroupsNumber of consumer groups consuming data from the topic.
ThroughputData replicated between the source cluster and the target cluster per second
            from a topic. Throughput is measured in bytes per second. By default, SMM displays the
            average throughput. You can also fetch the maximum or minimum throughputs for a topic by
            clicking the MAX or MIN button located above the topic details.
Replication LatencyAmount of time taken for a message of a topic to get replicated from
            the source cluster to the target cluster. Replication latency is measured in
            milliseconds. By default, SMM displays the average replication latency. You can also
            fetch the maximum or minimum replication latency for a topic by clicking the MAX or MIN
            button located above the topic details.
Checkpoint LatencyAmount of time taken for a message of a topic to checkpoint on the
            target cluster after the message is committed on the source cluster. Checkpoint latency
            is measured in milliseconds. By default, SMM displays the average checkpoint latency.
            You can also fetch the maximum or minimum checkpoint latency for a topic by clicking the
            MAX or MIN button located above the topic details.

The following diagram shows details of topics in a cluster replication:


In the image, you can see that the number of topics to be replicated from CDFCluster to
   CDFClusterDR is 7, and topic details including topic names, number of partitions for the topics
   at the source cluster, number of consumer groups consuming messages from each topic, throughput,
   replication latency, and checkpoint latency of each topic.

Searching by topic nameLearn how to search a Kafka topic by name in a Kafka cluster replication and fetch     details for that topic. After you find a topic, you can see the topic name, partitions, consumer     groups, throughput, replication latency, and checkpoint latency for that topic.