Downloading CDW and Kubernetes diagnostic bundlesCloudera Docs
Downloading CDW and Kubernetes diagnostic bundles
To troubleshoot issues with CDW, download diagnostic bundles ZIP files  stored in your public cloud account. This capability is available on AWS environments only.


Before you can download log files, you must, of course, run workloads on your
                    Hive or Impala Virtual Warehouse to generate the logs.
Obtain the DWAdmin role.



Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the CDW service.

Collect a diagnostic bundle for your environment, Database Catalog, or Virtual
                    Warehouse as follows: 

Environment bundle: In Environments, find your environment, click , and then
                        click Collect Diagnostic Bundle. 



Database Catalog bundle: Click Overview > Database Catalog > Diagnostic Bundle, and click Collect Diagnostic
                            Bundle. 



 Virtual Warehouse bundle: Click Overview in the left navigation panel,
                        select your Virtual Warehouse, click , and click
                            Collect Diagnostic Bundle.




Select information about events within selectable time ranges, or select By Custom Time Interval, and specify the interval you want.
              

In Collect For, accept the default options for the types of logs to generate for the diagnostic bundle, or deselect options.

Click Collect
After some time, depending on your cluster size and log sizes, but typically after 10 seconds, a message indicating completion appears indicating the diagnostic bundle is generated: Collection of Diagnostic Bundle … initiated. 

Click the name, or tile, of an environment, Database Catalog, or Virtual Warehouse.

In Diagnostic Bundles, copy the location of the diagnostic bundle ZIP file you want to download.

In the Amazon S3 management console, navigate to the location of the diagnostic bundle ZIP file, download the ZIP file, decompress it, and look at the troubleshooting information in the files.From an Environment, Database Catalog, or Virtual Warehouse tile, you can click Edit > Diagnostic Bundle to get information about, and collect bundles for, current or previous jobs you ran.


Related informationSend a diagnostic bundle to Cloudera SupportCDP CLI commands for generating a diagnostic bundleDiagnostic bundle contentParent topic: Diagnostic bundles for CDW and Kubernetes