Downloading Impala diagnostic bundlesCloudera Docs
Downloading Impala diagnostic bundles
Learn how to download diagnostic bundles to use for troubleshooting an
    Impala Virtual Warehouse in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud.

To troubleshoot issues with your Impala Virtual Warehouses, download diagnostic bundles
        of log files for the sidecar containers that support Impala components and for the
        components themselves. These diagnostic bundles, in the form of ZIP files, are stored in
        your public cloud account. This capability is available on AWS environments only. 
      
Required role: DWAdmin


Before you can download log files, you must, of course, run workloads on your Impala
        Virtual Warehouse to generate the logs. 


Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the CDW service.

In the CDW service, click Overview in the left navigation panel,
          and select an Impala Virtual Warehouse.

In the Impala Virtual Warehouse tile, click the more options
          menu, and select Collect Diagnostic Bundle.






Set options that select which logs to generate for the diagnostic bundle.


By Time Range: Select a specific time range of log files to
              generate from the drop-down list, or you can choose a custom interval in the next
              option.
By Custom Time Interval: Select the start and end time from
              the drop-down list to define the specific time interval for the log files in the
              diagnostic
              bundle.
Collect For: Remove any of the available categories of log
              files by clicking the adjacent X: 
Workload contains the log files for the Impala
                  components, such as statestored, impalad,
                  catalogd, coordinator, auto-scaler, and Hue frontend and
                  backend logs. See Impala Logs.
Profile contains log files for Impala Query Profiles. See
                  Understanding Performance Using Query
                    Profiles.
Minidump contains the breakpad minidump log files. See
                  Using Breakpad Minidumps for Crash
                    Reporting.
Sidecar contains the logs for the sidecar containers that
                  support Impala components.
HMS contains sidecar container logs that support the
                  metastore.





Click Collect to generate the bundle.
After some time, depending on your cluster size and log sizes, but typically after 10
          seconds, a message indicating completion appears indicating the diagnostic bundle is
          generated:

Collection of Diagnostic Bundle for impala-mpvt initiated. Please go to
            details page for more information.


To navigate to the Virtual Warehouse details page, click Virtual
          Warehouses in the left navigation menu, and select the name of the Virtual
          Warehouse for which you just generated the diagnostic bundle.

In the details page for that Virtual Warehouse, click the DIAGNOSTIC
          BUNDLE tab, and then click the copy-to-clipboard icon to copy the S3
          bucket path to the diagnostic bundle:






Paste the S3 bucket location path in a text document and use it to navigate to the
          location in your Amazon S3 management console to download the ZIP file.
When you expand the diagnostic bundle ZIP file that you downloaded from S3, there are
          four directories containing log files and a diagnostic-data-generator.log
          file, which contains troubleshooting information.
        


Related informationSend a diagnostic bundle to Cloudera SupportCDP CLI commands for generating a diagnostic bundleDiagnostic bundle content