Diagnostic bundles for CDW and KubernetesCloudera Docs
Diagnostic bundles for CDW and Kubernetes 
A diagnostic bundle captures information for troubleshooting and determining the root
  cause of problems in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). Learn about diagnostic bundles for
  troubleshooting your Virtual Warehouse, Database Catalog, and environment/cluster.
This release supports a diagnostic bundle collection at different categorical levels:
   Env (environment) DBC (Database Catalog), and VWH (Virtual Warehouse): 
Environment/cluster including Kubernetes resources
DBC: Database Catalog including Kubernetes resources
VWH: 
Hive Virtual Warehouse including Kubernetes resources 
Impala Virtual Warehouse including Kubernetes resources

The following information, and more, is included about Kubernetes resources: 
Pod
Deployments
CustomResource
PVCs
StatefulsetsAt the Database Catalog and Environment level similar resource information and logs about the
   components are included in the bundle.
If you use Amazon CloudWatch and enable CloudWatch logs when you activate an AWS enviroment, or
   edit environment details, the following logs are included under their respective log streams and
   bundled at the ENV level:
kube-scheduler
kube-controller-manager
kube-apiserver
authenticator
For more information about enabling CloudWatch logs, see activate an environment from CDW or edit environment details. You must add required permissions to your IAM policy. 
The diagnostic bundle includes a history of events at the cluster level. Although Kubernetes
   only preserves information about events of the past hour, the diagnostic bundle backs up events
   for the last 30 min or 1, 12, 24 hours, or a custom time interval you can specify.



You can specify a custom time interval for collecting information.




Downloading CDW and Kubernetes diagnostic bundlesTo troubleshoot issues with CDW, download diagnostic bundles ZIP files  stored in your public cloud account. This capability is available on AWS environments only.