Use the Web UI to debug Impala Virtual WarehousesCloudera Docs
Use the Web UI to debug Impala Virtual Warehouses
You can use the Catalog Web UI, Coordinator Web UI, and the StateStore Web UI to
    debug Impala Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW).
  

The Impala daemons (impalad,
          statestored, and catalogd) debug Web UIs, which can be
        used in CDP Runtime by using Cloudera Manager, is also available in the CDW service. In CDW
        service, the following Web UIs are provided:

Impala Catalog Web UI This UI provides the same type of information as the Catalog
            Server Web UI in Cloudera Manager. It includes information about the objects managed by
            the Impala Virtual Warehouse. For more information about
              this debug Web UI, see Debug Web UI for Catalog Server.
Impala Coordinator Web UI This UI provides the same type of information as the
            Impala Daemon Web UI in Cloudera Manager. It includes information about configuration
            settings, running and completed queries, and associated performance and resource usage
            for queries. For information about this debug Web UI, see
                Debug Web UI for Impala Daemon.
Impala StateStore Web UI This UI provides the same type of information as the
            StateStore Web UI in Cloudera Manager. It includes information about memory usage,
            configuration settings, and ongoing health checks that are performed by the Impala
              statestored daemon. For information
              about this debug Web UI, see Debug Web UI for StateStore.
Impala Autoscaler Web UIThis UI gives you insight into Autoscaler operations, accessing log messages, and
            resetting the log level. The autoscaler Web UI includes information about the queries queued and running, executor groups,
            suspended calls, scale up/down calls, the autoscaler config, and the autoscaler logs.

Required role: EnvironmentAdmin


Make sure that you note your CDP workload user name and have set
        a password for it in the User Management module of Management Console. You need to use your
        workload user name and its associated password to log into the debug Web UIs. For more
        information, see Setting the workload password in the Management
        Console documentation set.


In the CDW UI on the Overview page, locate the Impala
                  Virtual Warehouse for which you want to view the debug UIs, and select
                  Edit from the options menu on the tile. This launches the
                  details page for this Virtual Warehouse.

In the Virtual Warehouse details page, select the WEB
            UI tab on the right. The list of debug Web UI links are displayed as shown
          in the following image:






Click a Web UI link corresponding to an Impala daemon that you want to debug.
You are prompted to enter your workload user name and password.

After you are authenticated, you can view
      the debug Web UI and use the information to help you troubleshoot issues with your Impala
      Virtual Warehouse. 

