




CDP Public Cloud Release Summary - January 2021






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: January 2021 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights

CDE adds support for Airflow DAGs, per-cluster ACLs, troubleshooting
and supports EKS 1.18
Data Visualization is now integrated with CDP SSO
CML now supports Applied ML Prototypes and EKS 1.18
Data Hub adds support for cloud hardware resiliency via placement
groups (AWS) and availability sets (Azure)
Two new modules added to CDP Public Cloud Administration training
course
[Tech Preview] SDX Medium Duty v2 is available on AWS; v2 offers
full resiliency for UI and API access

New Or Updated Capabilities
Documentation


Management Console


Configuring audit event archiving via UI
(AWS)


Configuring audit event archiving via UI
(Azure)


Manually creating the ADLS account used for storing images and
copying the
images




Data Engineering


Job Swagger APIs published and available for reference to all
users


Lightweight backup & restore of Virtual Cluster Jobs
metadata


Resource
overview


Enabling WXM integration, tags, and IP
whitelisting


Troubleshooting tools -
log files and deep analysis




Cloudera Data Engineering


Support for Airflow DAGs


DE and ML practitioners can now define their own pipelines
packaged as an Apache Airflow Python DAG. Currently supported
CDP operators include running Spark jobs on CDE and Hive jobs
on CDW.


An embedded Airflow UI within the job & job run details pages
gives users a “deep link” to the specific Airflow DAG making
it easier to access within the context of the job runs.


The Schedule page has been removed from the left panel of the
virtual cluster jobs UI, and the full Airflow UI is now
exposed through the Virtual Cluster details page.




Improved service observability for service troubleshooting


Diagnostic bundles can now be collected through a new API
end-point, which includes:

Cloud resource status: (EKS, RDS, EFS, ELB)
Helm status( helm version, helm ls -A)
Kubernetes status (deployments, pods, services, ingresses,
config maps)





Virtual Cluster user-based ACL


By default a Virtual Cluster is accessible to all DEUsers and
DEAdmins, which includes the Jobs API, Airflow UI, along with
any connections and credentials defined within Airflow.


Enabling access control will now limit access to the API and UIs
of the Virtual Cluster to a subset of users - normal or
machine users. Groups are not yet supported.




Kubernetes support

CDE now supports EKS 1.18



Data Visualization


CDP SSO integration

CDP Data Visualization applications running in Cloudera Machine
Learning released in November 2020 or later can permit SSO
authentication in admin settings.



Usability improvements


Improvements and bug fixes for crosstab visuals, custom display
formats, CSV/Excel downloads and dashboard import/export.


Refer to additional release notes for
Nov
and
Dec




Cloudera Machine Learning


Applied ML Prototypes

Applied ML Prototypes (AMPs) are now generally available inside
the product, which provide end-to-end prototypes to help
kickstart real customer use cases. AMPs effectively package
pre-built models for data scientists to tailor for their own
needs, as well as enable data scientists to learn how the
different parts of CML work together.



Kubernetes Support

CML AWS now supports K8s 1.18, keeping up with updated EKS
support



SDX


[Tech Preview] Updates to SDX HA


SDX HA with full resiliency for UI & API access (‘Medium Duty
v2’) is available on AWS (only v1 is available on Azure)


In addition to the builtin client-side failover available in v1,
v2 offers full resiliency for UI and API access




Data Hub


Support for Cloud Hardware Redundancy

Guaranteed physical hardware redundancy via AWS Placement Groups
and Azure Availability Sets, preventing cloud provider
hardware failures from affecting any HA services in Data Hub



Management Console & Control Plane


Classic-Clusters Support for Centos 6.x

This will support onboarding of legacy on prem CDH clusters
running on older centos versions to CDP Public Cloud.



Education


CDP Public Cloud Administration Training

Two new modules in our course on CDP Public Cloud administration
are now available to customers with an Cloudera OnDemand
library subscription. The first, Classic Clusters,
demonstrates how to register and manage classic clusters with
CDP Public Cloud, which are essential skills for hybrid cloud
deployments. The second, Monitoring and Management, explains
how administrators can use Cloudera Manager to operate and
monitor clusters in a CDP environment, including how to view
cluster health, metrics, utilization, events, logs, and
reports.



Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













