




CDP Public Cloud Updates - March 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: March 2020 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest feature updates to CDP Public
Cloud delivered thus far in 2020. CDP is an integrated data platform
that is easy to deploy, manage, and use. CDP Public Cloud provides
secured and governed data lakes (SDX), an environment with a wide range
of analytic engines (Data Hub) as well as self-service data marts (Data
Warehouse), and machine learning workspaces (Machine Learning). The
latest release of CDP features version 7.1.0 of the Cloudera Runtime and
Cloudera Manager.  This update covers both the 7.0.2.2 and 7.1.0
releases and recent enhancements to the Control Plane and SDX
applications.
Overview
Private networks (subnets) are now supported in both AWS and Azure,
including in the CPD UI
Cloudera Data Warehouse


Support for private subnets - CDW support for deploying load balancer
and worker nodes in private subnets.


IP aliasing / multiplexing - Using overlay networks to increase the
available IP addresses for an existing CDP environment that uses subnets
with very limited IP address.


Controls on speed of autoscaling - Introduction of scale up delay or
scale down delay in Autoscaling


DW User role - A dedicated user role with entitlement to manage Cloudera
Data Warehouse clusters within a given CDP environment


Column-masking in Impala - Support for Ranger Column Masking in Impala
CDW


Enable Impala HA - Ability to turn on/off Impala coordinator HA


Security - Restricting access to API server and workload endpoints on
the Kubernetes cluster


Cloudera Machine Learning


Improved Security with Load Balancer Source Ranges - When provisioning a
Machine Learning workspace, admins can now select the CIDR range of IP
addresses allowed to connect to the workspace. This provides better,
machine-level control over user access and security from Cloudera Data
Platform


Improvements to High Availability Architecture - All single points of
failure have been removed down to the Kubernetes cluster. This ensures
workloads from data engineering to models operating in production
environments will not be impacted by other users or technical issues.


Technical Preview for MLOps - Model monitoring, model cataloging and
full production lifecycle lineage tracking are now in technical preview
for select customers. Reach out to your Cloudera associate to learn
more!


Minor update to base Engine 11 - Includes updates to the R interpreter
and provides better support for R-based IDEs


Cloudera Data Hub


Improved performance tuning for ‘Data Engineering’ clusters using
Hive-on-Tez


A more streamlined ‘Data Mart’ template without HDFS, improving launch
time & efficiency


Multiple ‘Streams Messaging’ (Kafka) clusters each with its own set of
Ranger (AuthZ) policies (Preview)


Reduced launch times for all clusters with wire encryption enabled


Numerous robustness improvements to S3guard, ensuring consist access to
AWS S3


‘Operational Database’ improvements, including:


Tech preview of RDBMS-like capabilities like ANSI SQL, Secondary indexes
and views


Improved performance


Numerous bug fixes


Enhancements to operational support tools




‘Real-time Data Mart’ improvements to simplify configuration &
maintenance and performance improvements


Auto-configuration of NTP (in AWS),


Faster compression


New maintenance mode for tablet servers


Support for rolling restarts to avoid service outages while applying
configuration changes




Workload Manager now supports


Analysis of Hive on Tez and Hive LLAP workloads


Burst to Cloud functionality for HDP 3.x clusters


SDX


Data Lake clusters now support in-place patch upgrades of the operating
system and system-level software on Data Lake hosts.  Attached Data Hub
clusters must be stopped during an OS upgrade


Enhanced security (stronger authentication requirements) for directly
accessing nodes running certain SDX components


Management Console
Password expiration policies can be now be defined for local workload
passwords stored in FreeIPA
This release also includes over 125 bug fixes, security improvements,
and other improvements to the CDP continuous delivery pipeline &
processes.  Full release documentation including release notes for each
service is available
here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).














