




CDP Public Cloud Updates - December 2019






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: December 2019 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest feature updates to CDP Public
Cloud delivered at the close of 2019. CDP is an integrated data platform
that is easy to deploy, manage, and use. CDP Public Cloud provides
secured and governed data lakes (SDX), an environment with a wide range
of analytic engines (Data Hub) as well as self-service data marts (Data
Warehouse), and machine learning workspaces (Machine Learning).
Overview


Support for private networks (AWS VPCs and Azure VNets).  Available as
a Tech Preview, this allows users to create CDP Environments that use
select services (CDP Data Hub, SDX Data Lakes and Replication Manager)
within their corporate networks.  This also enables
[Replication Manager)(/replication-manager/cloud/index.html)
to connect with Classic CDH/HDP Clusters in other networks to replicate
& synchronize data, metadata and security policies from on-premises
environments to CDP.


Streams Messaging cluster template and definition:  Available as a
Tech Preview, the Streams Messaging Heavy Duty and Streams Messaging
Light Duty cluster templates and definitions are now available in
CDP Data Hub
with advanced messaging and real-time processing on streaming
data using Apache Kafka, centralized schema management using Schema
Registry, and management and monitoring capabilities powered by Streams
Messaging Manager.


Easily manage hybrid Kafka architectures - Running a Cloudera
supported Kafka distribution on-premises and Kafka in CDP Data Hub
ensures consistent tooling and support, minimizing integration risks.


Easy migration to public cloud - Leveraging NiFi along with your
hybrid Kafka architecture can help move and migrate any data set to the
public cloud with ease.


Build cloud-native streaming applications - Kafka deployments in CDP
Data Hub can serve as your building blocks to build cloud-native
streaming applications in the public cloud advanced messaging
capabilities with strong streaming semantics and data governance.


SDX integration for consistent data governance and security - Get a
holistic experience for setting security policies and managing data
governance across end-to-end streaming applications.




Cloudera Data Warehouse


Enriched Data Warehouse Visualization Including Hive on Tez and LLAP:
Hue, a web-based interactive query editor that enables you to interact
with data warehouses, extends support for Hive with Tez and LLAP
execution engines, so all available data warehouse compute engines can
be easily visualized. Learn more about
Hue.


Improved Impala Performance: As Impala is ideally suited for ad-hoc
and interactive SQL reporting, performance at scale is paramount. This
release adds options to increase performance with HBase and parquet. For
HBase, there is a new query option that lets Impala use existing Hive
Metastore table statistics and avoid the overhead of real-time
estimations during planning. For Parquet, Impala can increase query
performance by using a parquet native parameter to more accurately
control the splits on non-block stores. See
Impala Query Options
and
Impala with Amazon S3
for more details.


Cloudera Machine Learning
CML improves machine learning model serving up-time and fault resistance
by optimizing deployment workflows and solving for two single points of
failure. For businesses this means even better highly reliable serving
of models for production environments.
Cloudera Data Hub


Workload Manager Integration: know how your workloads and queries are
performing and use the diagnostic insight for fast troubleshooting,
focused optimization, reduced downtime and improved resource
utilization. You can now manually enable or disable workload analytics
for Data Hub cluster workloads by connecting these clusters to Workload
Manager.


Newly created Data Hub clusters will use an upgraded Cloudera Runtime
with numerous security enhancements


New Streams Messaging cluster template and definition referenced in
the overview section


Management Console


Enhanced CIDR specification: you can now specify multiple CIDRs on
individual security groups as you create environments, providing greater
flexibility and saving time. Read about user access to clusters.
Learn how to setup security groups.


Public Certificate Renewal: CDP environments can now renew public
security certificates in their trust store by clicking a button on the
main environment page.  This allows browsers and other clients to
automatically trust CDP services in longer running environments when
making TLS secured connections


IAM role selection: choose from existing instance profiles and roles
rather than having to manually enter IAM role ARNs during IAM instance
profile or role provisioning, saving time and reducing the potential for
errors.


The full release documentation including release notes for each service
is available
here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













