




CDP Public Cloud Release Summary - March 2021






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: March 2021 Release Summary
Highlights

Medium Duty SDX is Generally Available on all clouds; on AWS,
Endpoint Access Gateway can be used to provide secure public access
to private deployments
SDX and Data Hub are now available on Google Cloud
Runtime Version 7.2.8 is now enabled, which fixes over 400 issues as
well as enabling new functionality across the product
Cloudera Machine Learning now supports a significantly reduced cross
account role on AWS and also honors RAZ policies on both AWS and
Azure
[Tech Preview] Cloudera Data Engineering is available on Azure
as a Tech Preview

New Or Updated Capabilities
Documentation


Management Console


Documentation for registering a Google Cloud environment and
creating Data Hubs is now available:

Getting Started as an admin in
CDP
Google Cloud
requirements
Introduction to Google Cloud
environments
Google Cloud environment prerequisites
Register a Google Cloud
environment
Default Data Hub configurations available for Google
Cloud
Create a Data Hub cluster on Google
Cloud



Medium duty SDX for AWS was added to Data Lake
scale.


Documentation was updated to include the option to use your
existing Azure resource group. See the updated Azure
Permissions,
Resource
group,
and Register an Azure
environment.


The new option to create private endpoints instead of service
endpoints for Azure Database for PostgreSQL is now documented
in Private endpoint for
PostgreSQL.


The option to enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway for AWS is
documented in Public Endpoint Access
Gateway.


The new set of options to obtain CDP CLI commands from the CDP
web interface is now documented at:

Obtain CLI commands for registering an
environment
Obtain CLI commands for creating a
credential
Create a Data Hub cluster on AWS from an existing
cluster
Create a Data Hub cluster on Azure from an existing
cluster



The Enabling environment
telemetry
documentation was updated to include the new option to disable
cloud storage logging for an existing environment.


The eu-south-1 (Milan) and af-south-1 (Cape Town) AWS regions
were added to Supported AWS
regions.


New documentation on how to Obtain your CDP tenant
ID
was added.




Data Warehouse


Custom Tags for
AWS
and
Azure


Use a non-transparent proxy with AWS
environments
(about,
how-to
configure)


Compassion in Virtual
Warehouses
(how it
works,
architecture,
considerations,
configuration)




Data Engineering


Virtual cluster Back-up &
restore
of job artifacts


CLI examples:
concepts,
resources,
airflow




Machine Learning


Reduced Cloud Permissions on AWS

CML now supports configuring AWS environment cross-account roles
with fine-grained cloud permissions and policies for
provisioning and running workspaces.



CML Model DNS Resolution


DataHub and CDE connectivity to CML services such as workspaces
and model endpoints is now possible.


This is supported by enabling internal DNS resolution for CML
workspace endpoints and models on private IPs; any existing
workspaces must be upgraded to the current release first




RAZ integration

CML now integrates with RAZ for S3.



Cdswctl support

ML Runtimes is now supported in cdswctl



External engine repositories

Admins can now add basic Docker credentials for external engine
repositories.



ML workspace provisioning

In case of validation errors, it is possible to skip
preflight validation for ML workspace provisioning. See
Provisioning ML
Workspaces
for more information.



[Tech Preview] CML + RAZ for ADLSg2 and RAZ for S3 integration

CML users will be able to access data lake storage and run spark
jobs in CML while also honoring RAZ for ADLSg2 and RAZ for S3
cloud storage access control policies.



Cloudera Data Engineering


API keys

DE users can now use API keys managed through CDP UMS to
interact with jobs API via CLI.



Raw Scala code

Users that want to run raw scala code without compiling, can now
submit jobs with raw scala code that will run a spark-shell to
process the application file.



Diagnostic bundles


Admins can access summary diagnostic logs directly on their
local machine.


New “Diagnostic” page has been added to the CDE Service details
to generate and download the bundle.




Force renewal of TLS certs

A CDE Service older than 90 days will have expired TLS certs. A
new action has been added to the CDE Service hamburger menu to
renew the certificate and avoid access issues for DE users.



[Tech Preview] Azure Support

CDE can now be deployed on Azure as a Tech Preview



[Tech Preview] GANG Scheduling


GANG is a new resource scheduling policy that will overcome
scale up challenges in situations where there is a high rate
of job submission, leading to queuing. The new scheduling
policy removes jobs off the queue in batches. This will clear
up the queue, force scale up of nodes to process the high
burst of incoming jobs, and reduce wait / starting time of
jobs.


By default this is disabled. It can be turned on for specific
jobs by adding a new job-level config option.




Data Catalog


Searchable user-editable comments and annotations on assets

Business users and data stewards can now add annotations to hive
tables and other data assets in the asset 360 view. These can
be used to add domain specific knowledge that are searchable
by other users.



Updated UX for Assets 360 views

The Tags section in the data catalog has been given more
prominence, making it easier to identify tags sources and
their sources (managed tags, system tags, or lineage
propagated tags)



SDX


Medium Duty SDX is now Generally Available on AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud

Medium Duty SDX adds more scale, supporting 20 Data Hub
clusters, and resiliency



Management Console


Environment Role - DataSteward

A new environment resource role which permits the user to
perform data steward tasks without granting full environment
administrator rights. This includes managing user access to an
environment, ID Broker mapping, and Ranger and Atlas
administration.



Generate CLI command from the UI

You can quickly obtain CDP CLI commands from the CDP web
interface; currently supported operations are creating
environments, data lake, credentials and data hub clusters



[Tech Preview] Two new AWS regions

The eu-south-1 (Milan) and af-south-1 (Cape Town) regions are
supported as a Tech Preview



Data Hub


Support for Google Cloud


Data Hub (and SDX) are now Generally Available on Google Cloud


Current cluster definitions are: Data Flow (NiFi), Data
Engineering (Spark/Hive) and Streams Management (Kafka)




Public Endpoint Access Gateway for AWS

Provides secure external connectivity to UIs and APIs in Data
Lake and Data Hub clusters deployed using private networking



Azure Single Resource Group Support is now Generally Available

This will allow deployment of CDP environments with
significantly reduced privileges



Private endpoints for Azure database for PostgreSQL are now Generally Available

This option will allow customers to keep their database
completely private to their Azure virtual network



Runtime 7.2.8 is available

This release fixes over 400 issues, for details see the
Release
Notes



Kafka topic metadata in Data Catalog


Data Stewards can now track Kafka topic metadata in the Data
Catalog.


Turn on *Enable Auditing to Atlas *for the Kafka service in
Cloudera Manager after provisioning a new Streams Messaging
Cluster




[Tech Preview] Fair-share Intra-queue preemption in YARN

Preemption of workloads to maintain fair share allocations even
when the workloads are submitted by the same user and in the
same queue.



Education


Content is available to all customers with a Cloudera OnDemand
library
subscription


CDP Public Cloud Administration Training

We have expanded our CDP Public Cloud administration course to
include coverage of CDP Public Cloud deployments on Microsoft
Azure



CDP Data Visualization Training

First three in a series of modules on CDP Data Visualization:
“Accessing DataViz,” “Terminology and Workflow,” and
“Datasets”



Data Warehousing in Cloudera Data Platform

First two in a series of modules about data warehousing on the
Cloudera Data Platform. The first module - Overview of Data
Warehousing in CDP, Analytic engines in CDP



Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













