




CDP Public Cloud Release Summary - November 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: November 2020 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights

A list of specific outbound destinations that must be available for
CDP Public Cloud has been published
Data Warehouse has a number of performance and security improvements
as well as better integration with Azure services
Machine Learning has a number of usability improvements, new
lightweight runtimes and improved scaledown in Azure
Data Engineering has a number of management improvements including
CLI support and the ability to run multiple instances in the same
environment
SDX has a number of availability improvements, including
backup/restore and enabling high availability
New training modules are available in the CDP Public Cloud
Administration course

New Or Updated Capabilities
Documentation


Management Console


Outbound network access destinations


Reserved group names


Updated requirements for Azure Database for PostgreSQL


[Tech Preview] VM-based on demand diagnostics




Operational Database

The official technical preview documentation for the Operational
Database service is now available at
/operational-database/cloud/index.html.



CDP API


Expanded documentation for the CDP API, including cdpcurl, is
available.


The API Changelog is available at
https://cloudera.github.io/cdp-dev-docs/api-docs/CHANGELOG.html




Cloudera Data Warehouse


Improvements for Azure based workloads


Save Costs: Executor nodes for virtual warehouses on Azure can
now be scaled down to zero nodes, therefore using zero Azure
resources for idle workloads saving costs.


Standardize and streamline CDW analytics: Pushing CDW metrics
and logs into Azure’s log analytics gives Azure administrators
a consistent and standard view of CDW together with all other
platforms they manage, in one place


Simplify debugging of virtual warehouses on Azure with Grafana
Loki LogQL to query kubernetes logs


Tightening security model with a Unified Resource Group making
the Owner role no longer required, only the contributor role
is now required.




More flexibility in SQL Engine choice

Impala can now match Hive full support for reading tables based
on ORC file format, improving collaboration between different
classes of SQL users across the data lifecycle. Now, users can
select the SQL Engine that best matches their workload, and
share common data, without restrictions tied to the file
format.



Greater robustness and stability for virtual warehouses


High availability, fault tolerance and multi-threading
improvements to Impala strengthen enterprise-grade resilience
for Impala workloads


Increased transaction integrity with greater stability for high
velocity data with Hive ACID and Hive ACID compaction




Greater performance for virtual warehouses using Hive LLAP

Better management for Ad-hoc and short-running queries with
reduced startup latency, and other query performance
improvements, increasing the use case flexibility for Hive
LLAP users. Users can run an even greater variety of query
types with Hive while meeting or exceeding performance needs.



Improved security with machine user implementation

Securing your virtual data warehouse requires an automated
account that can assist in communication between components
and the underlying data lake. To that end, a new “machine
user” is now created and is synchronized with the FreeIPA
Management System (FMS) directly, so that Hue, Impala, Data
Visualization, and more, can communicate with the services
within the Data Lake associated with the virtual warehouse,
without having to use the FreeIPA LDAP admin account, as
before. As a security measure, Cloudera recommends upgrading
the CDW environment, Database Catalogs, and the Virtual
Warehouses to the latest CDW release.



Cloudera Data Engineering


CDP CLI Integration

Administrators can now automate the enabling of CDE services and
creation of Virtual Clusters through CDP CLI. Jobs will
continue to be managed through the CDE CLI shipped with the
service.



Multiple CDE Services

It’s now easier to enable CDE service multiple times within the
same environment (datalake/SDX). This allows admins to set up
multiple CDE services with differing instance profiles and
allows for easier consumption tracking through AWS tags at the
service level.



Python virtual environments

Users can now specify a list of python libraries as dependencies
for Pyspark jobs. This can be specified through a
requirements.txt file that is uploaded and managed through
CLI/API.



CDP Trial Tours

The first trial tour for Data Engineering admins is now
available.



Cloudera Machine Learning


Updated Projects Dashboard

Upon logging in to CML, users have a new streamlined page to be
able to access their Projects. Projects can be displayed in a
Summary card-based view for direct access, or in a Detail
table-based view to be able to jump directly to different
workloads (Sessions, Experiments, Models, etc) within a
particular Project. In addition, the Resource Usage Details
can be displayed or hidden as needed.



Scaling Workers on Azure

On Azure, the number of worker nodes can now be scaled to zero
when the workspace is idle.



ML Runtimes

As an alternative to the existing Engines in CML, ML Runtimes
are more lightweight than the current monolithic Engines. By
specifying the desired Editor, Kernel, Edition, and Version, a
streamlined Runtime will be used to run the user’s code in
Sessions, Jobs, Experiments, Models, or Applications.



Asynchronous Project Creation

New Project creation, in particular via Git or forking from an
existing project, now executes in the background so that the
user does not have to wait.



Sessions List Export

The date format on the Sessions List Export has been updated to
include the complete date plus hours, minutes, seconds and a
decimal fraction of a second



SDX


[Tech Preview] SDX Backup

Reduced risk and simplified management to CDP continuity and
recovery through convenient and straightforward backup as well
as restore for SDX configuration, now also on Azure (was
already in Tech Preview on AWS).



[Tech Preview] SSL Enforcement of SDX Database Connections

Improved security through strict enforcement of HTTPS rather
than HTTP for all network connections, ensuring your data
remains secure.



[Tech Preview] Medium Duty SDX/Data Lake Clusters


Experience more robust operation in case of failure with the
first release of the Medium-Duty Data Lake. Resilience of
master and IDBroker nodes ensure failure of either will not
affect compute-engine clients.


Currently, only available for the Data Engineering and Data Mart
templates for Data Hub




[Tech Preview] FreeIPA HA

Improved resilience for CDP’s FreeIPA identity management,
ensuring service continuation in case of instance failure(s).



Management Console & Control Plane


Billing and Metering in MyCloudera Portal

Plan Summary is now available for all customers. Prepay
subscriptions see a consumption burn-down, whereas pay-as-you
go and trial subscriptions display total consumption.



Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













