




CDP Public Cloud Release Summary - February 2021






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: February 2021 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights

Operational Database is now Generally Available on AWS and Azure
Data Warehouse now has a Reduced Permissions Mode on AWS, along with
significant improvements for performance, upgrades and access
control
Machine Learning now includes Applied ML Prototypes, which provide
end-to-end ML use cases that can be deployed with one click
Data Visualization includes improvements to usability, job
scheduling and customization
Management Console improvements include interactive login mode for
CLI, User Delete and Log Anonymization
SDX improves support for Edge2AI Lineage
[Tech Preview] Data Catalog adds a Hybrid Cloud mode, allowing you
browse and search metadata in a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster

New Or Updated Capabilities
Documentation


Management Console


FreeIPA HA: You can configure your CDP environment to run
FreeIPA in high-availability mode. See Managing
FreeIPA.


User Delete: Deleting users and machine
users.


CDP CLI reference: CDP CLI reference documentation is
available at
https://cloudera.github.io/cdp-dev-docs/cli-docs/.


Interactive login for CDP CLI and CDP SDK: Logging
into the CDP
CLI/SDK.


Anonymization Rules: Defining anonymization rules for CDP
logs.


Configure lifecycle management for logs on AWS and Azure: To
avoid unnecessary costs related to Amazon S3 pr ADLS Gen2
cloud storage, you should create lifecycle management rules
for your cloud storage location used by CDP for storing logs
so that these logs get deleted once they are no longer useful.
See Configure
lifecycle management for logs on
AWS
and Configure lifecycle management for logs on Azure.


Consolidated documentation for restricting admin and end user
access for CDP services: See Restricting
access for CDP services that create their own security groups
on
AWS
and Restricting
access for CDP services that create their own security groups
on Azure.


AWS and Azure requirements documentation was updated to include
more requirements related to Data Engineering, Data Warehouse,
and Machine Learning. These requirements were previously only
documented in service-specific docs.




Data Warehouse


Using Log Analytics with Azure
environments


Reduced permissions mode for AWS
environments




Data Engineering

Expanded CDE CLI how-to with
examples



Operational Database


Cloudera Operational Database (COD) is now Generally Available on
AWS and Azure GA on AWS & Azure


Cloudera Operational Database empowers developers to automate and
simplify database management with capabilities like auto-scale,
auto-heal, and auto-tune.


Data Warehouse


Reduced Permission Mode for AWS


This feature allows admins to activate CDW environments in AWS
using their own user credentials and not need to provide
elevated permissions to the cross-account role.


When CDW detects that the cross-account role does not have
elevated permissions, it shows a “Launch-stack” button in the
CDW activation UI.


This allows security admins to adhere to principle of least
privilege and give cross account role minimum required
permissions to manage VWs and DB Catalogs.




Data Visualization


Job Scheduling and Customization

Email jobs can now be customized or changed post-creation,
making it easy to change the send schedule, add additional
recipients, or update the messaging to accompany a dashboard.



Usability Improvements

Improvements and bug fixes for data connections, removal of
temporary files, SQL visuals, CSV/Excel downloads and
importing visual artifacts.



Machine Learning


Applied ML Prototypes

Applied ML Prototypes (AMPs) are officially launched with brand
new Prototypes inside the product, which provide end-to-end
projects to help kickstart real customer use cases. The latest
AMPs include Deep Learning for Question Answering, Explaining
Models with LIME and SHAP, Active Learning, and MLFlow
Tracking, totaling to a dozen prototypes made available
through our Fast Forward Labs team.



Jupyter Notebook Previews

Notebook files are now able to be viewed without starting a
Jupyter Notebook session. This enables Data Scientists to view
the results of the latest run of the Notebook very quickly and
without having to consume additional compute on the workspace.



Data Catalog


[Tech Preview] Hybrid Data Catalog - Browse CDP-PVC Base
contents

Enables the Data Catalog to browse and search metadata in a CDP
Private Cloud Base cluster just as if it were another CDP
Public Cloud environment.



SDX


Edge2AI lineage - Nifi → S3 → ETL → MLOps

Starting with CDP Runtime 7.2.7, NiFi flows putting files to S3
and ADLSv2 have lineage automatically connected with Hive
table based etl automatically and out of the box.



Management Console


User Delete


CDP administrators now have the ability to delete users in CDP
    through both the user interface and the CLI.


Deleting a user removes all access keys and SSH keys associated
with the user, unassigns all roles and resource roles and
removes the user from all groups that they belong to.




Interactive login for CDP CLI and CDP SDK


If you would prefer that user access to the CLI/SDK is
shorter-lived, you can use the “interactive” method of logging
into the CDP CLI/SDK.


The interactive method integrates with any SAML-compliant
external identity provider




Anonymization and Redaction of Logs

CDP includes a set of default anonymization rules and allows you
to define custom anonymization rules in order to remove
sensitive information from CDP logs



Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













