




CDP Public Cloud Release Summary - December 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: December 2020 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights

We have completed the AICPA Service Organization Control 2 (SOC 2)
Type 2 audit for Cloudera Data Platform and are compliant
SDX enhancements including Backup/Restore, HA for CDP Identity
Manager and Fine Grained Access Control for S3 (Tech Preview)
CDW enhancements including support for UDF, improved scalability,
robustness and cost management
CDE improvements including scaling, tuning, analytics and debugging
; in addition, custom Airflow DAGs are in Tech Preview
CML adds usability enhancements; additional instance types are
supported as a Tech Preview
Streams Replication Manager (SRM) is now available with Streams
Messaging clusters in Data Hub

New Or Updated Capabilities
Documentation


Management Console


Data Lake backup and
restore
(New)


Azure resources used by CDP (New)


Azure
permissions
(Updated)


Renew host certificates on Data Lake and Data Hub
clusters
(Updated)




Cloudera Data Warehouse


Better Data Warehouse Analytics for SQL Developers with SQL
Improvements


Hive User Defined Functions (UDF) now enabled on Azure (as they
have been on AWS)


More expressions possible in SQL for Hive, making more
sophisticated reports and dashboards possible in a single
statement




Better Data Warehouse Scalability for BI Analysts and DBAs with
Increased Performance and Robustness


Improved robustness for Hive bucketing, and Hive Virtual
Warehouse LDAP authentication


More performant deterministic query planning time for large Hive
queries


Faster results with more accurate query plans for Impala (via
host count fix)




Improved Cost Management and Control for System Administrators on
AWS and Azure


Reduced cost overhead with a single SQL database to host
multiple CDW environments instead of multiple


Improved cost control with Impala manual start and stop, to
override automation if appropriate


Reduce unnecessary idle costs with fully shut down coordinator
instances




Improved Robustness for Key Administrator Workflows


Running multiple CDW instances in a single resource group


Upgrade of VW & DB Catalog




Cloudera Data Engineering


Better scaling


Larger compute instance types to accommodate heavier ETL
workloads and tweaks to infra services for higher job
submission API throughput


Better spark defaults tuned for kubernetes improving scale up
and stability.




Run profiling analysis on demand for additional tuning metrics

Users can trigger additional profiling analysis for any job.
This will provide memory and cpu utilization, and stage level
cpu flamegraphs.



WXM Integration

CDE services can now share spark application metadata and
metrics with WXM for better visibility into aggregate
workloads across the entire CDP environment, manage SLAs, and
identify additional tuning opportunities.



Easy log configuration & access


Full logs can now be downloaded as a new download option along
with a quick bookmark to the S3 location of the spark
application logs.


The UI now supports setting the log level from OFF to DEBUG and
TRACE.




Lightweight Back and restore

Use the CDE CLI & API to backup and restore jobs from one
virtual cluster into another virtual cluster within the same
CDE service or completely new one. Helps support upgrades as
it requires enabling a new service.



Create/clone job from existing run for easier debugging

CLI now supports cloning job runs, carrying over configs and
parameters, making it easier to troubleshoot runs with
failures.



[Tech Preview] Self-authored Airflow DAGs

DE and ML practitioners can now define their own pipelines
packaged as an Airflow python DAG. Currently supported CDP
operators include running Spark jobs on CDE and hive jobs on
CDW.



Cloudera Machine Learning


Ability to update ML Workspace settings

Customers can now update several settings of an already
provisioned ML Workspace, including the autoscaling settings,
authorized IP ranges for the k8s API server, and load balancer
source ranges. In particular, being able to update the
autoscaling settings will help customers to better handle
additional load on the ML Workspace.



[Tech Preview] Additional Instance Types

Customers can now provision ML Workspaces and choose from a
larger list of AWS and Azure instances, thereby enabling the
usage of larger instances than were previously available.



SDX


Fine-grained access control for S3 storage on DataHub (aka RAZ for
S3) available for tech preview


Reduce security risk, improve compliance and eliminate
unintended data deletion with the addition of the Ranger
Authentication Service (RAZ) for AWS S3. CDP on AWS users gain
fine-grained access control policy and auditing capabilities
on their file system accesses.


Enable customers migrating from on-premises or IaaS clusters
using EBS and who have relied on Ranger HDFS policies or HDFS
ACLs to have the same level of access control and audit on S3.
This is especially useful for Data Hub Spark and Hive external
table workloads that require direct access to files. RAZ for
S3 Environments can be created using the CDP environment
wizard as well as via the CLI.




Cloudera Data Catalog now shows Metadata Audit information.


Data Catalog users benefit from ever richer Asset 360 views,
delivering more complete insight on their data.


The new “Metadata Audit” tab on the Asset 360 views lets users
directly track all changes to their data assets’ metadata.




Improved lineage information for NiFi flows interfacing with S3
and ADLS

Data Lineage is now correctly captured and displayed in Atlas
and the Data Catalog for NiFi flows which read/write data
from/to S3 or ADLS.



Datalake Backup/Restore is now GA

You can backup and restore the metadata maintained in the Data
Lake services. Data Lake backup and restore is supported from
Cloudera Runtime 7.2.1+ on AWS and Cloudera Runtime 7.2.2+ on
Azure.



High Availability for CDP Identity Manager (Free IPA) is now GA


Up to 3 instances of CDP Identity Manager (Free IPA) can be
deployed via the Management Console GUI or CLI when creating
an environment.


Note: repair of failed FreeIPA instances is still a manual
process




Data Hub


Data Discovery and Exploration is now GA

The pre-templated search service that makes building search
applications easier and faster, in cloud, has graduated from
tech preview to production ready.



Streams Replication Manager (SRM) is now available with Streams
Messaging clusters


Customers can now use SRM to migrate data from on-premises Kafka
clusters to cloud based Streams Messaging clusters. SRM also
enables continuous replication between multiple Streams
Messaging clusters across different cloud regions or even
cloud providers.


Every new Streams Messaging: Light Duty cluster comes with the
SRM services installed by default. *Streams Messaging: Heavy
Duty *clusters now allow optional SRM nodes to be provisioned.


Requires version 7.2.6 of the Cloudera Runtime




Management Console & Control Plane


AICPA Service Organization Control 2 (SOC 2) Compliance

Cloudera is pleased to announce that we have completed the AICPA
Service Organization Control 2 (SOC 2) Type 2 audit for
Cloudera Data Platform and are compliant



Control Plane Audit Improvements


Audit events can now be archived into a customer-managed cloud
storage


Expanded to include CDW, and CML events




Global Settings menu

Account-wide settings (audit, tags, and telemetry) have been
moved to Global Settings menu in the Management Console



cdpcli-beta is now available


Features under tech preview will now be available in the beta
cdpcli


To install cdpcli-beta create a Python virtual environment and
run: pip3 install cdpcli-beta




Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













