




CDP Public Cloud Updates - November 2019






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: November 2019 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest feature updates to CDP Public
Cloud delivered in November 2019. CDP is an integrated data platform
that is easy to deploy, manage, and use. CDP Public Cloud provides
secured and governed data lakes (SDX), an environment with a wide range
of analytic engines (Data Hub) as well as self-service data marts (Data
Warehouse), and machine learning workspaces (Machine Learning).
Overview


Replication Manager is now available in CDP Public Cloud and supports
replication of HDFS & Hive from CDH clusters (version 5.14 and later) to
CDP Public Cloud. Additional components & data sources (e.g. HDP
clusters) will be supported in future updates.


CDP Public Cloud on Azure is now in Tech Preview with support for SDX
and
Data Hub
services, suitable for demos and a limited set of onboarded
customers. Cloudera Data Warehouse and Cloudera Machine Learning on
Azure are planned for future updates.


Cloudera Data Warehouse


Rapid Auto-scaling - For critical workloads with an immediate need for
availability and a short term lifespan, Impala VMs can auto-scale to
ensure results are delivered as fast as possible.  With this update,
autoscaling happens significantly faster (seconds vs. minutes) by
preparing more of the package in advance of the auto-scale request,
saving valuable resource consumption costs.


Accelerated Data Warehouse SQL at Massive Scale - For demanding, long
running workloads on massive data volumes, typical of an enterprise data
warehouse, Hive on LLAP delivers speed without sacrificing scalability.
With this update, Hive has been further optimized for even faster SQL
performance with improvements in memory handling and accuracy of table
statistics for partitioned tables, ensuring all your reports meet or
exceed business KPIs. Read more about managing and tuning
Hive LLAP Virtual Data Warehouses.


Built-in Fuzzy Full Text Search - Finding “close enough” text matches,
such as finding customer name matches when mis-spelled, or by
approximate address, may require multiple queries into the same data,
with different search engines.  With this update, Impala streamlines
such searches with native support for Jaro-Winkler fuzzy string
matching, making it faster and easier to retrieve numerically scored,
approximate match results in a single query, making it far easier for
line of business users to take advantage of text searching in their
analytics. Read more about
Impala string functions.


Optimized Cloud Data Warehousing - Returning large result sets across
long latency connections in the cloud can be slow and expensive, as they
tend to be demanding on server-side execution resources. With this
update, server-side results spooling dramatically frees up those
execution resources, speeding up how users see their query results while
also reducing cloud consumption cost. Read more about
spooling Impala query results.


Cloudera Machine Learning


Analytical Applications: This capability enables data science teams
build and host persistent web-based applications and dashboards using
frameworks like Flask, Dash, and Shiny to easily share analytics results
and insights with business stakeholders. Users can build completely
custom functional applications for everything from dashboard reports
like Tableau to portable predictive apps that make use of underlying
machine learning models in business user UIs. Check
this blog
to see how
it works and don’t forget to share it with your colleagues and
customers.


Resource Quotas: This feature gives CML workspace site administrators
a way to enable CPU, GPU, and memory usage quotas per user. Quotas limit
the aggregate resource consumption for data scientists and enable admins
to control resource costs more granularly.


Diagnostic Bundles: CML now allows site administrators to download
diagnostic bundles from the Site Admin panel making it easier to
analyze, share, and address issues.


Cloudera Data Hub


Operational Database cluster enhancements:
The Operational Database
cluster definition
enables customers to build real-time,
high-concurrency, mission-critical business applications in the cloud
environment. Key enhancements in this update include real-time
monitoring, out-of-the-box resilience, and replication capabilities
(Tech Preview) for Disaster Recovery (DR) and for enabling seamless
migration of operational applications from on-premises to cloud.


Real-Time Data Mart cluster definition:
Now available in Data Hub with
Apache Kudu, Apache Impala, and Apache Spark for real-time data
management and operational analytics use cases. This cluster definition
is an excellent choice for real-time analytics on fast changing data,
and can be leveraged with Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) for a holistic
analytics experience.


Enhanced SQL Access for DE Clusters:
Data Hub
clusters built with
Data Engineering
cluster definition now offer an improved SQL experience for
Hive SQL users with smart query authorizing, inbuild performance
analysis & recommendations tools available in
Data Analytics Studio
(DAS). This capability provides an enhanced self-service experience for
data analysts and data engineers.


Simplified, consistent access to Amazon S3:
S3Guard provides strong
consistency guarantees when accessing data in S3 across multiple
workloads or clusters. S3guard is now easier to use in CDP, allowing
customers to either leverage existing DynamoDB infrastructure or have
Data Hub clusters automatically manage this infrastructure, resulting in
less administration overhead and minimizing costs.


Management Console


Wire Encryption: CDP Data Hub and SDX now offer TLS encryption across
all endpoints for both data and control traffic, providing an internal
Certificate Authority (CA) with commonly trusted certificates and
automatic certificate expiry warnings. With auto-TLS, CDP’s default
setting, adding new cluster hosts or services to a cluster with auto-TLS
enabled automatically creates and deploys the required certificates.
Automatic wire encryption makes your complete deployment secure by
design and reduces business risk as well as operational overheads
associated with enabling and managing TLS encryption on the cluster.
Read more about how to use S3 encryption with CDP.


Consistent FreeIPA user password across all environments: Users’
FreeIPA passwords are automatically propagated to each newly created
environment. Users can still manage their FreeIPA password from the User
Management page and reset it if needed. Learn more about
how CDP federates identities across clouds.


Data Catalog

Ranger Audit Profiler: Adds ability to view access patterns from a
forensic audit or compliance perspective. The audit profiler uses the
Apache Ranger audit logs to show the most recent raw audit event data as
well as summarized views of audits by type of access and access outcomes
(allowed/denied). Access pattern visualizations make anomalies stand out
and allow for focussed investigation and improved security. Find out
more about how any data can be profiled
using the Data Catalog Profilers.

The full release documentation including release notes for each service
is available
here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













