




CDP Public Cloud Release Summary - July 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: July 2020 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights

Cloudera Data Warehouse is now Generally Available on Microsoft Azure
[Tech Preview] Ranger Authorization Service (RAZ) for Microsoft Azure ADLS
[Tech Preview] Data Discovery and Exploration (SOLR) template for DataHub

New Or Updated Capabilities
Documentation


CDW Documentation Updates


Adding access to external S3 buckets for CDW clusters on AWS

Adding buckets in the same AWS account
Adding buckets from a different AWS account





Cloudera Data Warehouse


CDW on Azure in now Generally Available


CDW is now Generally Available on both AWS and Azure.


Cloudera Data Warehouse is a CDP service for self-service
creation of independent data warehouses and data marts that
autoscale to meet your varying workload demands.




Cloudera Machine Learning


Ability to manually select subnets for new ML Workspaces

When provisioning a new ML Workspace, you can now select which
subnets within your virtual network to be associated with the
Workspace. With the differences in requirements between the
CDP experiences, this helps to ensure that your planned
network is being leveraged appropriately by CML.



Customizable Session Metadata

The overall user experience for starting a new Session has been
streamlined. Setting the Session Name is brought to the
forefront, and admins can also define mandatory Session
Metadata to be captured for each Session, both of which will
help to establish further governance over the Sessions being
run.



*** Cloudera Data Flow


Refresh of NiFi in Flow Management for Data Hub

The Flow Management templates available in CDP Data Hub have
been updated with a refreshed version of Apache NiFi 1.11.4.
They include a number of dependency upgrades to ensure that
NiFi successfully integrates with Cloudera Runtime components.



Refresh of Kafka in Streams Messaging for Data Hub

The Streams Messaging templates for Runtime 7.2.1 in CDP Data
Hub have been updated with Apache Kafka 2.5



[Tech Preview] Streaming Analytics for Data Hub Template (AWS only)


Streaming Analytics, powered by Apache Flink, is now available
on CDP Public Cloud as a DataHub cluster template. This
enables powerful analytics on top of streaming data, including
Kafka topics on your Streams Messaging Data Hub clusters.


This tech preview release ships the lightweight cluster
template which is intended for small workloads as well as
testing/dev environments




Cloudera Search


[Tech Preview] Data Discovery and Exploration Data Hub Template


Make data immediately searchable and explorable in a few simple
steps with this new CDP Data Hub template. Significantly
simplify the process of building a log or a text search
application: Ingest data via the Data Flow template, in real
time, or use Spark and Solr to quickly index data; Design
index schema in HUE and serve your end users via your custom
Search UI Application, via the HUE Search Dashboard, or via
Cloudera Visual Apps.


If you are in need of a searchable large-scale repository (e.g.
making your Operational DB accessible and explorable) you can
create a custom template with Solr-HBase integration.


Available both in AWS and Azure, in CDP Public Cloud Data Hub




SDX


[Tech Preview] Ranger Authorization Service (RAZ): Fine-grained access controls for Azure ADLS


Reduce security risk, improve compliance and eliminate
unintended data deletion with the addition of the Ranger
Authentication Service (RAZ) for ADLS Gen 2. CDP on Azure
users gain fine-grained access control policy and auditing
capabilities on their file system accesses. Rather than
handling access controls to cloud storage at the group level,
individual users now can have individual home directories that
are protected from other users. This unlocks a host of
benefits:

Spark users can now work against files in their own
directories.
Classification tags on file system directories can be
propagated through data lineage
More complete migration for legacy HDP users with HDFS
Ranger policies directly ported to CDP in Azure
Legacy CDH users now have the comparable file access audit
capabilities to those Cloudera Navigator provided.



This Tech Preview is only available for Data Hub clusters




Management Console & Control Plane


System Auditing is now Generally Available


This will enable collection of control plane events for forensic
analysis by an external system


This feature is only accessible via the CLI; UI support will be
available in subsequent releases




Non-Transparent Proxy For SDX and DataHub clusters is Generally Available

This will make it easier to deploy SDX and DataHub clusters in
an isolated network.



CDP Control Plane Public API Reference is available here

This will enable lookup of descriptions for SDK functions as
well as CLI commands



Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













