




CDP Public Cloud Updates - May 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: May 2020 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights


A major theme for the platform was adding stability and refinement
across the platform and experiences


The Operational Database Cluster Definition in DataHub is now GA


New or Updated Capabilities
Cloudera Data Warehouse


Set up faster and easier in an AWS private cloud with simplified
deployments, as the private load balancer, private worker nodes
option will no longer require specialized configuration.


Faster SQL analytics in the cloud with more granular control and
performance optimizations on multi-threaded query execution,
improved read performance for ORC tables with nested type columns,
and improvements for the automatic updates of metadata in Impala.


Faster visualization of business insight with Hue now supporting
SQL applications based on Hive, and Hue metrics on Grafana dashboard
for easy to read, rich visuals for any business use case.


Manage and administer your cloud data warehouse easier with
improvements to Data Analytics Studio (DAS) user management
features, improvements to Impala troubleshooting with diagnostic
bundles of log files, and Ranger audit log generation to improve
Impala security.


Cloudera Machine Learning


Production Machine Learning Enabled By Default

As a follow up to April 2020’s GA, the ML Ops feature set is now
enabled by default for all accounts. This will enable all ML
Engineers and Data Scientists to take advantage of CML’s
advanced model monitoring and full lifecycle lineage tracking.



Streamlined New Session Startup

The user experience for starting a new Session has been
simplified. Instead of opening the Workbench by default, Data
Scientists see a pop-up appear that asks for the Session
details (Engine Editor, Engine Kernel, and Engine Profile).
This is particularly useful for Data Scientists who are using
editors such as Jupyter and RStudio, as they will be able to
start their Session in their editor of choice more quickly.



Firefox Support

CML now officially supports Firefox as a web browser.
Previously, Data Scientists were required to set a specific
browser property in order to use CML in Firefox, but this is
no longer necessary and Data Scientists can continue using the
tools they are most familiar with.



User IDs

CML Administrators can now view User IDs for each user under the
Admin / Users page. This makes it easier for
Administrators to cross reference user level logs and
monitoring in Grafana.



Updated Landing Page (Technical Preview)

The initial Projects landing page has a refreshed new design
that is available for internal testing only. This update
is focused on ensuring that data scientists can see how their
current resource reservations compare against their Quota, and
updates the list of Projects to be better aligned with design
standards.



Cloudera Data Hub


Operational Database


The Operational Database cluster definition in DataHub is now
GA. It is a multi-modal scale-out database offering powered by
Apache HBase & Phoenix. We have added support for relational
SQL (key-value, wide column) in addition to NOSQL (key-value
and wide column) as well as a number of optimizations that
make OpDB accessible to app developers that are familiar with
traditional RDBMs.


Two types of secondary indexes (covered & functional) are now
supported with the SQL modality. Secondary indexes provide an
orthogonal way to access data which improves efficiency and
can help avoid full table scans and in many cases reduces
access times to single digit milliseconds.


Authorization is integrated with SDX providing a single place
for all authorization enabling enhanced security with deny
policies.




Workload Manager


Enhanced Spark Analytics


Gain deeper insight into Spark workload performance for
troubleshooting, increased efficiency and optimization.
Advanced spark analysis capabilities include:

DAG views
Resource consumption
CPU Flame graph





SDX


IPA Backups

The IPA node of an environment now automatically writes regular
backups to object storage, improving SDX resilience. Any
tenant specific user group and configuration can thus be
restored if the node is destroyed.



Data Catalog


Navigation Support for Table Entities within Lineage

Users can now be more efficient in exploring and
understanding their data by navigating from one Asset-360 view
of a table (Hive/Impala) to another in its lineage with a
single click. This simplifies and streamlines the user
experience by eliminating the need to perform new table
searches in order to see the details of a related table.



Management Console & Control Plane


Improvements in Data Hub Cluster Scaling

A number of significant improvements were made to properly clean
up cloud resources for scaling up and down Data Hub clusters.
This will reduce cloud costs that would have been incurred by
any orphaned instances



Edit Subnets

You can now add new subnets to the configuration of a running
environment. This will make it easier to add experiences (CML,
CDW) to an existing environment instead of requiring all
networks to be pre-defined during environment creation (or
having to create a new environment entirely)



Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













