




CDP Public Cloud Updates - April 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: April 2020 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights


All CDP services are now generally available on Microsoft Azure,
including SDX, Data Hub, Cloudera Data Warehouse (both Hive and
Impala), and Cloudera Machine Learning. SDX and Data Hub are
available in most Azure regions, however CDW and CML are only
available on Azure regions that provide AKS.


This further includes integration with the Microsoft Azure
Marketplace in order to make it easy for customers to pay for CDP
through their Azure credits.


Flow Management for Data Hub is now available as a new cluster
definition to make it easy to create NiFi clusters on AWS or Azure.


Cloudera Machine Learning now includes expanded production machine
learning capabilities (aka MLOps) to support model monitoring,
cataloging, access controls, and lineage.


New Features
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)


Faster Time to Productivity and Improved Workload Health


Higher user productivity with faster Virtual Warehouse
provisioning as images get preloaded on compute and shared
service nodes prior to run time, and reducing the image size
of the compute node from 11GB to 2GB.


Streamlined user experience with single sign-on across more
components


Improved workload health with the ability to monitor workload
operations even deeper, and receive important alerts, in
Prometheus and in the CDP Web UI, as well as greater
resiliency in SQL engines




Improved Business Insights with More Data Types

Take advantage of analytics on even more new data types for
deeper business insight including Kudu Date and Varchar, as
well as zstd compressed text files



More Business Insights and Improved Exploration Experience with
Faster Analytics

Improved SQL Engine performance for faster response to
dashboard, report and ad-hoc queries with improvements to
scratch capacity management, the cache eviction algorithm, and
improved read performance for ORC tables



Cloudera Machine Learning (CML)


Production Machine Learning: NEW ML lifecycle focused
functionality enabling ML Engineers and Data Scientists to cut time
to production for ML models from weeks to minutes and scale ML use
cases without compromising enterprise security, maintainability, and
governance standards.


MLOps now GA - Monitoring models’ functional and business
performance requires specialized tooling and CML now includes
native functionality to enable the storage and access of
custom and arbriatry model metrics. Included as well is the
ability to track individual predictions to ground truth
ensuring models are performing optimally and compliantly.


SDX governance capabilities expanded to support CML now GA -
This includes model cataloging, full lifecycle lineage, and
custom metadata in Apache Atlas to help customers track,
manage, and understand large numbers of ML models deployed
across their enterprise


Increased Model security - Model REST endpoints now have
additional security features that allow user-level access
control to prevent unauthorized users from accessing the end
points. This enables models to be served in a CML production
environment without compromising security.




Data science usability improvements


Data scientists can now manage groups of sessions within a
project in bulk, making it easier to clean up workspaces and
control cloud costs for expired machine learning projects.


Also, data scientist users can now pass in custom CLI argv for
Jobs — no need to rewrite or configure when copying
workloads




Administrative & security Improvements


The platform is now W3C WCAG 2-AA Compliant for CDSW/CML
Workspace Applications.


Admins can now enforce users to enter information when starting
sessions for audit purposes




Cloudera DataHub


Flow Management for Data Hub (NiFi) now GA


A new cluster definition to spin up Apache NiFi clusters on
public cloud


Light Duty configuration for PoCs / Heavy Duty configuration for
production workloads


Based on latest Apache NiFi 1.11.4


Integrated with SDX for authentication, authorization and data
governance/lineage




Streams Messaging for Data Hub (Kafka) [Tech Preview]

Increased connection stability for external clients by
automatically updating DNS records for Kafka brokers to
reflect public IP changes after a cluster has been stopped or
a failed broker has been replaced



Data Engineering for Data Hub


Data Hub now includes a new Data Engineering HA cluster
definition (tech preview) that deploys all critical services
(YARN, HDFS, Hive) in an HA fashion. Non-critical services
(such as like Zeppelin and Livy) are not yet HA in this
release


Data Engineering cluster administrators can now leverage the
visual YARN queue manager via CM to control YARN resource
pools




Real-Time Data Mart for Data Hub (Kudu+Impala)

Take advantage of analytics on even more new data types for
deeper business insight including Kudu Date and Varchar



Workload Manager


Search by Job/Query ID

Ability to search for or lookup a specific job or query run by
YARN Application ID, Hive or Impala Query ID or MR Job ID



Access Control - Manage & control user access for clusters

Workload Manager provides you with the ability to restrict
access to workload views, jobs, and queries by assigning user
roles. The Cluster Admin, Cluster User, and Workload User
roles provide varying levels of access, which prevents users
from accessing information that they do not explicitly need.



Resource Consumption Widget in Impala

Showcases Average CPU Core Hours and average memory usage as a
function of time on the Impala summary page



SDX and Data Catalog


Data Profilers - Provide not only insight into data makeup
(cardinality, nullity, min/max/mean and more, both in textual as
well as graphical representation) but also sensitivity with
discovered classifications ensuring data access and masking rules
are consistently applied, even for previously unknown data sets.
Data Profilers also collect statistics about access and usage so
data owners can gauge the impact of their datasets and data users
can infer who are the domain experts around data sets.


Data Flow Lineage - Offers a complete overview of data ingest
pipelines and how they are integrated with tables and ML models.
Data flows built using the Flow Management cluster definitions in
Data Hubhave lineage automatically captured and presented for NiFi
flows and processors.


CML Model Lineage - With the inclusion of model and training
lineage, CDP provides ever more detailed and complete lineage across
the data lifecycle. This new addition gives Data
Scientist/Architects the insight in the impact of changes to the
upstream ingest and ETL pipelines on their work and enables them to
evaluate whether ML workloads are affected by the changes.


Keytab Externalization [Tech Preview] - Enhance gateway
services and reduce implementation and management overheads by
retrieving CDP Kerberos keytabs from the Control Plane.


Management Console


System Auditing - Reduce security risks and prevent unexpected
infrastructure costs by knowing exactly what’s happening in CDP
through full auditing of user role changes, group changes as well as
login activity.


Enhanced Resource Tagging - Custom tags can now be applied to
SDX clusters and FreeIPA nodes during environment creation.


Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













