




CDP Public Cloud Release Summary - June 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Public Cloud: June 2020 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the latest updates to CDP Public Cloud.
Highlights

Cloudera Operational Database (COD) Service is now in Tech Preview
for both Azure and AWS
Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) Service is now in Tech Preview for
AWS
Streams Messaging DataHub Cluster is now GA
Runtime 7.2.0 has
been released, which unlocks a few key features, but much more
importantly fixes over 250 issues

New Or Updated Capabilities
Cloudera Data Warehouse


Isolation of Scan-Heavy
Queries

Queries that scan and process more than a threshold volume of
data get their own, one-time, isolated, executor group that is
sized to meet the needs of this query. This allows DBAs to
automate the processing of one time queries that can affect
SLAs of all other queries running on the cluster.



Overlay network support for AWS environments is
GA

Overlay network is a software-defined layer of network
abstraction that is used to run multiple separate, discrete
virtualized network layers over the AWS VPC network. This
allows admins to build Virtual Warehouses using fewer IP
addresses.



Virtual WH Access Control (Tech Preview):

Ability to restrict use Virtual Warehouses--login, execute
queries, based on LDAP group membership.



Query Transparent Retry (Tech Preview):

If submitted Impala queries fail via Hue, other clients at query
startup time or fragment fails, query will be retried a
configured number of times. This is turned on via a session
flag.



Cloudera Machine Learning


CML Trial Experience for New Users

To help new users to get their bearings within the product, we
now have an end-to-end in-product walkthrough that takes users
through project creation, running sessions, deploying models,
and more.



Applied ML Prototype - Churn Demo

Not only to help with the CML Trial Experience, but also
available to all users is our first Applied ML Prototype based
on the Interpretability Report from Fast Forward
Labs.



New Updates with Engine:12

To keep up with new functionality and key fixes from the
community, R has been upgraded to version 3.6.3 and Python3
has been upgraded to 3.6.10.



Cloudera Operational Database


Cloudera Operational Database Service is now Tech Preview on both
Azure and AWS


It is an autonomous, multimodal, scale-out database supporting
NoSQL and relation SQL.


Customers can now create databases without worrying about the
infrastructure requirements


It includes support for secondary indexes, star schemas and
views are available when using the relational SQL modality


Authorization is integrated with Cloudera’s SDX offering
providing a single place for all authorization


Operational database template includes HUE for both NoSQL & SQL
modes w/ support for DDL, data exploration and query


It supports auto-scaling, pausing and resuming of the database


Integration with Data Catalog for 360 views


Integrated with SDX - Ranger for authorization, Atlas for Data
Lineage, Data Analytics Studio for Data Stewards




Cloudera DataFlow


Streams Messaging for Data Hub Template - based on Kafka 2.4 - is
now GA


Streams Messaging for Data Hub is now GA after being in
technical preview mode for a few months. This enables you to
launch Kafka clusters to the public cloud in a matter of
minutes.


Support for Schema Registry in this template allows for
centralized schema management. As a shared repository, Schema
Registry enables Kafka messages to be more nimble by allowing
them to just carry a reference to the actual schema.


Support for Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) in this template
allows for monitoring and managing Kafka clusters. With every
enterprise struggling with Kafka blindness, SMM provides
end-to-end visibility of your Kafka clusters as well as about
the data that is flowing from the producers to the consumers
through the various topics.


Key Features -

Support for Kafka 2.4.1
Schema Registry now highly available as well as integrated
with Apache Ranger
Streams Messaging Manager integrated tightly with Schema
Registry





Cloudera Data Engineering


The Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service is now in Tech Preview
on AWS


Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) is a new curated experience for
data engineers focused on deploying and orchestrating data
transformation jobs using Spark at scale.


The key to this experience is a central interface that
simplifies the job management life cycle from scheduling,
deploying, monitoring, debugging, and promotion which
alleviate many of the challenges with running spark jobs in
production. Similar to CML and CDW, CDE is cloud native
leveraging Kubernetes where Platform admins can quickly
provision virtual compute clusters with strong isolation,
capacity auto-scaling and quotas for cost management.


Key Features:

Simplified job management life cycle thru a centralized
interface for scheduling, deploying, monitoring & debugging,
and promotion.
Apache Airflow-based scheduling service - for orchestration
of complex data pipelines with job dependencies.
Visual troubleshooting and performance tuning of Spark jobs
and integration with WXM.
Rich API support for CI/CD use cases and 3rd-party
integrations
Containerized spark service for mixed-version spark
deployments.
Automatic lineage capture





The “7.2 - Data Engineering” DataHub Template Includes a YARN
Queue Manager

Data Engineering cluster administrators can now leverage the
visual YARN Queue Manager via Cloudera Manager to isolate and
prioritize workloads within a cluster simplifying
administration and management of workloads (this feature was
announced in the April Release Summary, but can only be
enabled in clusters created with Runtime 7.2.0)



Replication Manager


Support for CDH/HDP to Cloud Migration - AWS & Azure

Support for replication from HDP (Hive, HDFS) and CDH (Hive,
Impala and HDFS) to CDP Public Cloud, making real-time
migrations a reality.



Data Catalog


Asset 360 views for HBase Tables, Hive columns, S3 buckets, MLops
models and MLOps projects.

Revamped Asset 360 views and navigation simplifies building
trust and understanding for data and its lineage. Views now
cover more asset types and provide in depth governance insight
(overview information, schemas, access policies and audits).



User Generated Social metadata toggle

The Data Catalog’s social features can drive understanding,
trust and utilization through collaboration by capturing the
collective knowledge of data users and their user generated
content. However some organizations with strict data control
requirements may not want to use this capability as the
insight is stored in the Cloudera Control Plane. This feature
allows social metadata to be enabled or disabled.



On-demand profiler execution and last run info

Build confidence in data set statistics by seeing when the data
was last profiled; directly refresh outdated information by
triggering new profiler runs.



UX for creating for classification tags

Simplify the creation and lifecycle management of classification
tags. Previously defining new tags would require interacting
with both Data catalog and Apache Atlas. Now this can be doing
in fewer steps interactively using the Data Catalog alone



Management Console & Control Plane


CDP will create AWS VPC Endpoints when the auto-create VPC option
is chosen


This will make a private subnet deployment more secure as
traffic to these endpoints will stay within the AWS network


Gateway endpoints are created for S3, DynamoDB as well as
Interface endpoints for STS, ECR, EFS, ELB, EC2, Autoscaling
and CloudFormation




Groups Sync Disabled By Default

When you create a Group in CDP, the Sync Membership flag is now
off by default. This will eliminate the situation when users
would be removed from a CDP group if they weren’t part of the
same group in the ID Provider.



Support for HDP 2.6.x Classic Clusters Using CCM (Tech Preview)


Support for registering Classic clusters using the reverse SSH
mechanism is extended to legacy HDP 2.6.x clusters. This will
be behind the CLASSIC_CLUSTERS entitlement.


Currently, this feature is accessible through the UI only, CLI
support will be added in an upcoming release.




Full release documentation including release notes for each service is
available here
(Service Name → Release Notes → What’s New).













