Creating date and time filters on dashboardsCloudera Docs
Creating date and time filters on dashboards
In Cloudera Data Visualization, you can use application controls with date or timestamp
    parameters to filter records based on date and time values.

Open an existing dashboard in Edit mode.

Switch to the Filters tab on the Dashboard
            Designer side menu bar.

Click any date type field of the dataset displayed under
            Dimensions or Measures.

This adds a new date/time filter widget to the dashboard. The filter widget is named
            after the field name. If you hover over the filter widget, you can access the filter
            area actions that allow you to change the date range into a picklist, to configure the
            filter, or to remove it from the dashboard.
For more information, see Filter area actions for application control.
For instructions on how to configure date ranges, see Configuring ranges on
              dashboard filters.


To configure the new dashboard filter, hover over the filter and click the
            Gear icon in the top right of the filter widget.

The Settings modal window opens on the
              Basic tab.
Note that the Dataset of the filter is displayed. You can use
            the switch action to quickly change the filter across datasets and connections.
If you want to preserve the adjusted filter settings for View mode, select the
              Save date range selections made in edit mode option on the
              Basic tab of the Settings  modal
            window.
If you only want to display the latest available timestamp, you can default the date
            range to the max date of the dataset column by selecting the Default to the
              latest available timestamp option. If you select this option, the
              Save date range selections made in edit mode becomes
            unavailable.
importantMake sure that you do not add a field to the
            filter part of the dashboard if the same field is used on the dashboard as both a
            daterange picklist AND a time control.






Related informationFilter area actions for application controlConfiguring ranges on dashboard filtersUsing fixed dates (date range picker) modeIn Cloudera Data Visualization, the fixed dates mode in a date filter enables you to     select a subset range of dates for visualizing your data.Using relative dates modeIn Cloudera Data Visualization, the relative date mode in a date filter enables you to     select a subset range of dates anchored to a particular date. Using quick filtersIn Cloudera Data Visualization, the quick date filter enables you to provide a quick     selection of date ranges for visualizing your data.Including null values in date filtersIn Cloudera Data Visualization, the date filter enables you to select null values for     visualization.