Remembering previous selections on dashboard filters when searchingCloudera Docs
Remembering previous selections on dashboard filters when searching
This option allows you to view previous selections when searching for a new value in a
    dashboard filter.

This option is on by default.
The following examples show you how to enable or disable the option and how the filter
        behaves at run time both with and without the option.



Enabling 'Remember previous selections when searching'

Open a dashboard in Edit mode and hover over a filter that is already added to
            the dashboard until the controls appear on the top right.
Click the Gear icon. The Settings modal
            window appears.
Click the Display Settings tab and select the
              Remember previous selections option. By default, it is turned
            on.
Click APPLY.
Save the changes to the dashboard.



Using Filters with 'Remember previous selections when searching'
Compare this with the next section, Using Filters Without 'Remember Previous
            Selection'. For this option, a dashboard based on Cereals dataset and a dashboard
          filter based on the dataset field cereal_name are used.

Select 'All-Bran' and 'Almond-Delight' from the dropdown menu.
Enter Basic_4 in the search box, and click the Search
            icon to find the value.
Click Basic_4 to confirm the selection.
Click the Show Selected option.



Using Filters Without 'Remember previous selections when searching'
When this option is disabled, you are unable to see the previous selections. In this
          example the same dashboard and filter on cereal_name are used as in the  Using
            Filters with 'Remember Previous Selection' section, but with the option disabled.
          To use the filter without the option, follow these steps:

Select 'All-Bran' and 'Almond-Delight' from the dropdown menu.
Enter Basic_4 in the search box, and click the Search icon to find the
            value.
Click Basic_4 to confirm the selection.
Click Show Selected.Note that the top bar and the list at
              the bottom shows only the last selection, Basic_4.




Parent topic: Configuring display settings for dashboard filters