Configuring values of dashboard filtersCloudera Docs
Configuring values of dashboard filters
In Cloudera Data Visualization, you must specify the values of a newly created dataset
    filter or a custom filter after adding it to a sheet in a dashboard.

Follow these steps to configure values of the filter:


Click the Gear icon on the filter widget.
The Settings modal window opens on the
            Values tab.
Check the available options and update the settings as you need.

Figure 1. Dataset filter


Figure 2. Custom filter



Dataset
This is available only in dataset-based filters. It shows the name of the dataset
                in which the filter exists. If you click the (dataset) icon,
                you can change the dataset in the Select a dataset to switch
                  to modal.
Save selections made in edit modeYou can use this setting to save
                text, numeric, or date range selections made in Edit mode. When unselected,
                filter values selected while editing the dashboard will not be the default in
                  Edit mode.
Permit selection of NULL valuesYou can use this setting to exclude
                null values for all filter types.
From Base FieldThis is available only in dataset-based filters. It
                specifies the filter-controlling field. You can change the base field to another
                field of the dataset.
TitleThis is the name of the filter as it appears in the application
                at run-time. Keep it short and descriptive providing information on the filter's
                function.
Output ParameterThis is the parameter sent to the target visual to
                determine which field to display.In cases of optional or variable parameters,
                output parameter is used on the shelves of the target visual, such as
                  <<[dim], or <<[agg], or in an
                expression that contains the variable.When used in filters that are based on
                existing fields, the output parameter ensures field name match across datasets. For
                example, a filter that is based on the state field in the US
                  State Populations Over Time dataset must have the output parameter
                  stname to control visuals in the US County Population
                dataset.
Filter FieldsThis is available only in dataset-based filters. It
                specifies the base fields of another field, based on which options of the current
                filter can be filtered. You can enter multiple base fields separated by a
              comma.

Specified valuesThis is available only in custom filter widgets. It
                specifies the distinct values of the output parameter on which the filter acts, and
                labels them. For example, a <<mes>> output
                parameter can have the following specified values:
Value: gdp_per_capita,
                    Label: GDP per Capita
Value: life_expectancy,
                    Label: Life Expectancy




Click APPLY to save the configuration settings.


Customizing output parametersIn Cloudera Data Visualization, application controls can use custom output parameters.     You can apply a filter defined in one dataset to control visual presentation based on     information in another dataset.Setting parameters through URLIn Cloudera Data Visualization, when you set parameters through the URL, you can     dynamically add selection options without changing the saved values of the app. It is also easy     to share these settings by including them in emails, documents, and so on.