Audit OperationsCloudera Docs
Audit Operations
As an Atlas administrator you can view the audit operations listed in the
            Audits tab in the Atlas UI. The audit data is captured implicitly
        by Atlas for various operations.
The audit operations include:
Import
Export
Server start
Server state active (In case of HA environment)
Type Definition create
Type Definition update
Type Definition delete

The Type Definition can be of any type category listed:

Business Metadata
Classification
Enum
Entity
Relationship
Struct

Audit is collected for every create, update and delete operations.
noteA user or a group must have the Admin Audits Ranger permission
            to access audits and related information.



The JSON data is the payload which contains the actual data. You can submit the
            payload using the appropriate REST API tool.



An audit entry logs the total number of Type Definitions that are created for
            create, update, and delete operations. Type Definitions are categorized according to
            entity types, struct types, Enum types, relationships, classification, and Business
            Metadata. For every Type Definition, the JSON data is stored in the audit entry.
Each audit entry logs the following details:
Users - Indicates the user name of the user who
                    performed the audit operation..
Operation - Indicates an operation enum; can be
                    used for searching audit entities as well
Client ID - Indicates the IP address of the
                    machine from which the request was generated.
Result Count - Provides the total number of
                    artifacts on which the operation was performed.
Start Time - Indicates the actual time when the
                    request was generated.
End Time - Indicates the actual time when the
                    requested operation was completed.
Duration - Indicates the time taken by a
                    request to complete the intended operation.





Atlas Type DefinitionsUsing Type Definitions, you can create, update, and delete entities of various         types.Atlas Export and Import operationsAn audit entry is created for every export and import operation. Atlas Server OperationsWhen you perform server related tasks, audit entries are logged.Audit enhancementsWhen any entity is created in Atlas, the created entity is stored in HBase tables. Examples of Audit OperationsSome examples of payload submission for audit operations.