August 24, 2021Cloudera Docs
August 24, 2021

New CML engine:
          docker.repository.cloudera.com/cloudera/cdv/cmldataviz:6.3.1-b27

New CDSW engine:
          docker.repository.cloudera.com/cloudera/cdv/cdswdataviz:6.3.1-b27

New features and improvements

VIZ-383
Display formats are now applied as expected on CSV and XLS downloads when the data
            connection type is Impala or Arcadia.
VIZ-434
You can drill-into your data from the context menu to discover more granular
            information for a particular data point by examining other dimensions of your data.
VIZ-647
New icons have been added to the username display based on user type — an asterisk
            appears for admin users and a checkmark appears for LDAP/SSO-signed users.
VIZ-700
Usability improvements have been implemented to the dashboard builder sidebar.
VIZ-719
The full dataset name can now be viewed on hover in dashboard builder menus.
VIZ-736
You can now save a segment from a filter definition of a visual.
VIZ-770
Creating and editing HTML extension visuals is now easier with syntax highlighting,
            autocompletion, and side-by-side preview.
VIZ-773
Additional details on job parameters, including trigger conditionals and active states
            can now be viewed from the Job Status page.


Fixed issues

VIZ-666
Fixed a bug where a filter’s ‘Maximum number of rows to fetch’ setting unexpectedly
            affected the filter limit.
VIZ-667
Filters with a slide range selector now allow for precise selection of range
            values.
VIZ-691
Dashboards with multiple filters that are linked and given app scope now properly
            apply across all sheets.
VIZ-759
Fixed a bug where the relative dates timestamp filter reset upon switching between
            sheets of a dashboard.
VIZ-796
Fixed a bug where the Direct Access SQL editor applied the default limit even when the
            user specified a different value.
VIZ-820
Fixed a bug where changes in the Edit User modal could not be
            saved without retyping the current user password.



Parent topic: Older releases