July 30, 2021Cloudera Docs
July 30, 2021

New CML engine:
          docker.repository.cloudera.com/cloudera/cdv/cmldataviz:6.3.0-b53

New CDSW engine:
          docker.repository.cloudera.com/cloudera/cdv/cdswdataviz:6.3.0-b53

New features

VIZ-367, VIZ-715 - Data Visualization as Machine Learning Runtime
Data Visualization is available as a Machine Learning Runtime for Cloudera Machine
            Learning (CML) on CDP. For more information, see the ML runtime documentation.
VIZ-619 - Natural Language Search
Natural Language Search (NLS) is now generally available. You can speed up visual
            creation and data analysis insights by enabling search-based data exploration. For more
            information, see the NLS documentation.
VIZ-639 - SSB data connection [Tech Preview]
A new data connection type is available in technical preview: you can connect to SQL
            Stream Builder (SSB), an integrated job management interface. SSB is a part of Cloudera
            Streaming Analytics powered by Apache Flink. For more information on SSB, see the Introduction to SQL Stream Builder.


Improvements


VIZ-278
Improvements have been implemented for table expansion and sorting within an
              expanded table column.
VIZ-359
You can export all columns in CSV without selecting or forcing maximum column
              display to fit the entire column list.
VIZ-452
If you use the default credentials to login to Data Visualization, you will be
              prompted to change your password at the first login.
VIZ-454
Editing an HTML Extension visual is now easier with a larger modal.
VIZ-491
If you use Oracle metadata connections, you can now configure to connect using a
              Service Name.
VIZ-549
If you have dashboard editing permissions, you can view the clone history of a
              dashboard in the Usage Info menu.
VIZ-621, VIZ-623, VIZ-687
Multiple improvements have been implemented for email jobs, including the ability to
              configure a job to send only on the first trigger, XLS attachment options, and the
              ability to include a message along an embedded image sent via email.
VIZ-640
Views are  shown along with tables on PostgreSQL connections in the
                Connection Explorer.
VIZ-668
If you are an admin user, you can access the Daily Usage
              metrics page by clicking through the view count on the Data Visualization
              homepage.
VIZ-683
You can  select any specific color from a color palette as the default or starting
              color for a visual.
VIZ-710
Improvements have been implemented for migrations on mySQL metadata
              connections.



Fixed issues

VIZ-343
Fixed a bug where the table expansion tooltip displayed HTML elements when you
            selected 'Send all fields as parameters'.
VIZ-361
Refreshing an External Link visual now works as expected.
VIZ-495
Enabling highlighting on table visuals using a Solr connection now works as
            expected.
VIZ-528
Fixed a bug where the 'Download As' options were hidden under the neighboring
            menu.
VIZ-548
Fixed a bug where the Direct Access SQL editor may run queries as lowercase.
VIZ-650
Date and Time Functions on Hive connections now work as expected.
VIZ-651
Fixed a bug where casting a field resulted in any custom expression getting
            overwritten.
VIZ-662
Users may now copy the job status error text by clicking on the error icon.
VIZ-664
Fixed a bug where crosstab download limits did not apply as expected for CSV
            downloads.
VIZ-673, VIZ-674
The Custom Styles page now shows dashboards and applications
            that use custom CSS, not just visuals.
VIZ-690
The 'Set as Homepage' option is now visible from dashboards but not individual
            visuals.
VIZ-717
Fixed a bug where sorting on a Y-trellis did not work as expected.
VIZ-753
Fixed a bug where Custom Styles failed to load on the Manage Custom
              Styles page as expected.



Parent topic: Older releases