Older releasesCloudera Docs
Older releases
You can find here the list of known issues and limitations that you might experience
  while using earlier versions of  Cloudera Data Visualization.


Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.1.2Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using   Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected product   versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.1.1Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using   Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected product   versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.1.0Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using   Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected product   versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.0.5Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using   Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected product   versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.0.4Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using   Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected product   versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.0.3Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using   Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected product   versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.0.2Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using     Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected     product versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.0.1Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using     Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected     product versions, and possible workarounds.Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization 7.0.0Learn about the known issues and limitations that you might experience while using     Cloudera Data Visualization. You can find information about the areas of impact, affected     product versions, and possible workarounds.Parent topic: Known issues and limitations in Data Visualization