What's new in Data Visualization 7.0.0Cloudera Docs
What's new in Data Visualization 7.0.0

Cloudera Data Visualization (CDV) 7.0.0 was released on May 17, 2022 introducing the following
   changes.
New features and improvements in Cloudera Data Visualization 7.0.0

VIZ-20
Some major updates have been made to the Bootstrap and jQuery libraries. Bootstrap was
      upgraded from 3.3.7 to 4.6.0 and jQuery was upgraded from 2.2.4 to 3.6.0. This change has a
      potential impact to customers who have created Custom Styles in earlier versions of CDV, since
      they would potentially contain code that references legacy Bootstrap classes or jQuery methods
      in their CSS and/or JS respectively. For more information, see the Custom Styles Migration Guide.
VIZ-1115 & VIZ-1217
You can query your data directly through a new SQL tab in the top navigation bar, and a new
      homepage layout has been introduced so you can quickly add and access recent queries, data
      connections, and datasets alongside their dashboards and applications. From the
       SQL tab, you can now create a new dataset or dashboard from a query
      with a single click. Additionally, when editing a dashboard, updating a SQL-based dataset is
      even easier with the new Edit Dataset SQL option from the in-visual
      options menu.
VIZ-1328
 [Tech Preview] Data Extracts are now available as a technical preview feature. Data
      Extracts help with managing the analytical capabilities, performance, concurrency, and
      security of data access across data connections. For more information, contact your Cloudera
      representative.


Fixed issues in Cloudera Data Visualization 7.0.0

VIZ-1220
Fixed a bug where a dashboard could become uneditable after disabling Custom Styles.
VIZ-1270
Fixed a bug where roles were not deletable from the Manage Roles
      interface.
VIZ-1313
Additional bug fixes and usability improvements.
VIZ-1333
Dashboards now appear in a searchable list in the Set Homepage
      interface.
VIZ-1339
Show/Hide Password toggles in the Change My
       Password modal now work as expected.
VIZ-1367
Visuals without a secondary axis should no longer display settings options for the
      secondary axis.



Parent topic: Older releases