Configuring high availability for HueCloudera Docs
Configuring high availability for Hue
To enable high availabilty for Hue, you must configure at least two Hue servers, each
    on a different host and a load balancer.
    For
    secure connections, enable TLS/SSL and install
    Kerberos. Configuring Hue for high availability
    includes configuring Hue, Hive, and Impala. 


Provide SSH network access to host machines with a Hue Server/Kerberos Ticker Renewer
          role.
Configure each Hue server to point to an external database. Cloudera recommends to use
          an external database for clusters with multiple Hue servers so that no matter which server
          is being used, the data is always accessible. In a multi-server environment with a default
          embedded database (one per server), the data on server "A" can appear lost when working on
          server "B" if the server "A" becomes unavailable (which has the Hue backend database) and
          vice versa.



Add Hue roles:

Hue HA requires at least two Hue server roles and one Load Balancer
                  role. If the cluster is authenticating with Keberos, you need one
                  Kerberos Ticker Renewer on each host with a Hue Server. 


Log in to Cloudera Manager and go to the Hue
                service.
Go to the Hue service and select
                      Actions > Add Role
                        Instances.
Click Hue Server, assign to one or more hosts, and click
                      OK > Continue.
Click Kerberos Ticket Renewer, assign to each host with a Hue
                      Server, and click
                      OK > Continue.
Click Load Balancer, assign to one or more hosts, and click
                      OK > Continue.
Check each role and select Actions for
                      Selected > Start
                      and click Start.




Enable TLS for the Hue load balancer:


noteYou can configure the Load Balancer for TLS/SSL or each
                  endpoint (H2S, Impalad).



Go to
                    Hue > Configuration
                    and search on TLS/SSL.
Check Enable TLS/SSL for Hue for the
                    Hue Server Default Group.
Set other TLS/SSL properties appropriate for your setup. Some to
                    consider are:
Hue Load Balancer Port - Apache Load Balancer listens
                        on this port (default is 8889).
Path to TLS/SSL Certificate File - Must be
                        multi-domain with CN = Load Balancer in PEM format.
Path to TLS/SSL Private Key File - Must be in PEM
                        format.

Click Save Changes and Restart
                    Hue. 





Configuring Hive and Impala for high availability with HueTo configure Hive for high availability with Hue, you must have two or more       HiveServer2 roles. For Impala, you must have two or more Impala daemon       (impalad) roles.