Web User Interface for DebuggingCloudera Docs
Web User Interface for Debugging
 You can use the Impala daemons (impalad,
      statestored, and catalogd) Web UI to display the
    diagnostic and status information. Each of these Impala daemons includes a built-in web
    server.

 Impala Daemon Web UI 

 The Impala Daemon (impalad) Web UI includes
            information about configuration settings, running and completed
            queries, and associated performance and resource usage for queries.
            In particular, the Details link for each
            query displays alternative views of the query including a graphical
            representation of the plan, and the output of the
              EXPLAIN, SUMMARY, and
              PROFILE statements from
              impala-shell. Each host that runs the
              impalad daemon has its own instance of the Web
            UI, with details about those queries for which that host served as
            the coordinator. The impalad Web UI is primarily
            used for diagnosing query problems that can be traced to a
            particular node. 

 StateStore Web UI 

 The StateStore (statestored) Web UI includes
            information about memory usage, configuration settings, and ongoing
            health checks performed by statestored. Because
            there is only a single instance of the statestored
            within any Impala cluster, you access the Web UI only on the
            particular host that serves as the Impala StateStore. 

 Catalog Server Web UI 

 The Catalog Server (catalogd0 Web UI includes
            information about the databases, tables, and other objects managed
            by Impala, in addition to the resource usage and configuration
            settings of the catalogd. Because there is only a
            single instance of the catalogd within any Impala
            cluster, you access the Web UI only on the particular host that
            serves as the Impala Catalog Server. 



