Debug Web UI for StateStoreCloudera Docs
Debug Web UI for StateStore
You can use the StateStore (statestored) Web UI to view
    information about memory usage, configuration settings, and ongoing health
    checks performed by statestored.
 To debug and troubleshoot the statestored daemon using
      a web-based interface, open the URL
          http://impala‑server‑hostname:25010/
      in a browser. (For secure clusters, use the prefix
        https:// instead of http://.) 

Main Page

 The main statestored Web UI page at /
            lists the following information about the
              statestored: 

 The version of the statestored daemon 
 Process start time 
 Hardware information 
 OS information 
 Process information 
 CGroup information 


Logs Page

 The INFO logs page of the debug Web UI is at /logs
            under the main statestored Web UI. 
 This page shows the last portion of the
              statestored.INFO log file, including the
            info, warning, and error logs for the statestored.
            You can refer here to see the details of the most recent operations,
            whether the operations succeeded or encountered errors. This page
            provides one central place for the log files and saves you from
            looking around the filesystem for the log files, which could be in
            different locations on clusters that use cluster management
            software. 

Memz Page

 The Memory Usage page of the debug Web UI is at
              /memz under the main statestored Web UI. 
 This page displays summary and detailed information about memory
            usage by the statestored. You can see the memory
            limit in effect for the node, and how much of that memory Impala is
            currently using. 

Metrics Page

 The Metrics page of the debug Web UI is at /metrics
            under the main statestored Web UI. 
 This page displays the current set of metrics: counters and flags
            representing various aspects of statestored
            internal operation. 

RPC Services Page

 The RPC durations page of the statestored
            debug Web UI is at /rpcz under the main
              statestored Web UI. 
 This page displays information, such as the durations, about the
            RPC communications of this statestored with other
            Impala daemons. 

Subscribers Page

 The Subscribers page of the debug Web UI is at
              /subscribers under the main statestored
            Web UI. 
 This page displays information about the other Impala daemons that
            have registered with the statestored to receive and
            send updates. 

Threadz Page

 The Threads page of the debug Web UI is at /threadz
            under the main statestored Web UI. 
 This page displays information about the threads used by this
            instance of statestored, and shows which categories
            they are grouped into. Making use of this information requires
            substantial knowledge about Impala internals. 

Topics Page

 The Topics page of the debug Web UI is at /topics
            under the main statestored Web UI. 
 This page displays information about the topics to which the other
            Impala daemons have registered to receive updates. 

Varz Page

 The Varz page of the debug Web UI is at /varz under
            the main statestored Web UI. 
 This page shows the configuration settings in effect when this
            instance of statestored communicates with other
            Hadoop components such as HDFS and YARN. These settings are
            collected from a set of configuration files. 
 The bottom of this page also lists all the command-line settings
            in effect for this instance of statestored. 

Prometheus Metrics Page

At /metrics_prometheus, under the main
              statestored Web UI, the metrics are generated in
            Prometheus exposition format that Prometheus can consume for event
            monitoring and alerting. 
The /metrics_prometheus is not shown in the Web UI list of
            pages.



