Debug Web UI for Catalog ServerCloudera Docs
Debug Web UI for Catalog Server
 You can use the Catalog Server (catalogd) Web UI to view
    information about the databases, tables, and other objects managed by
    Impala, in addition to the resource usage and configuration settings of the
      catalogd.
 The main page of the debug Web UI is at
          http://impala‑server‑hostname:25020/
      (non-secure cluster) or
          https://impala‑server‑hostname:25020/
      (secure cluster). 

Main Page

 The main catalogd Web UI page at / lists
            the following information about the catalogd: 

 The version of the catalogd daemon 
 Process start time 
 Hardware information 
 OS information 
 Process information 
 CGroup information 


Catalog Page

 The Catalog page of the debug Web UI is at /catalog
            under the main catalogd Web UI. 
 This page displays a list of databases and associated tables
            recognized by this instance of catalogd. You can
            use this page to locate which database a table is in, check the
            exact spelling of a database or table name, look for identical table
            names in multiple databases. The catalog information is represented
            as the underlying Thrift data structures. 

JMX

 The JMX page of the catalogd debug Web UI
            is at /jmx under the main catalogd Web UI. 
 This page displays monitoring information about various JVM
            subsystems, such as memory pools, thread management, runtime. etc.
          

Java Log Level

 The Change log level page of the catalogd
            debug Web UI is at /log_level under the main
              catalogd Web UI. 
 The page displays the current Java and backend log levels and
            allows you to change the log levels dynamically without having to
            restart the catalogd


Logs Page

 The INFO logs page of the debug Web UI is at /logs
            under the main catalogd Web UI. 
 This page shows the last portion of the
              catalogd.INFO log file, including the info,
            warning, and error logs for the catalogd daemon.
            You can refer here to see the details of the most recent operations,
            whether the operations succeeded or encountered errors. This page
            provides one central place for the log files and saves you from
            looking around the filesystem for the log files, which could be in
            different locations on clusters that use cluster management
            software. 

Memz Page

 The Memory Usage page of the debug Web UI is at
              /memz under the main catalogd Web UI. 
 This page displays summary and detailed information about memory
            usage by the catalogd. You can see the memory limit
            in effect for the node, and how much of that memory Impala is
            currently using. 

Metrics Page

 The Metrics page of the debug Web UI is at /metrics
            under the main catalogd Web UI. 
 This page displays the current set of metrics: counters and flags
            representing various aspects of catalogd internal
            operation. 

RPC Services Page

 The RPC durations page of the catalogd
            debug Web UI is at /rpcz under the main
              catalogd Web UI. 
 This page displays information, such as the durations, about the
            RPC communications of this catalogd with other
            Impala daemons. 

Threadz Page

 The Threads page of the debug Web UI is at /threadz
            under the main catalogd Web UI. 
 This page displays information about the threads used by this
            instance of catalogd, and shows which categories
            they are grouped into. Making use of this information requires
            substantial knowledge about Impala internals. 

Varz Page

 The Varz page of the debug Web UI is at /varz under
            the main catalogd Web UI. 
 This page shows the configuration settings in effect when this
            instance of catalogd communicates with other Hadoop
            components such as HDFS and YARN. These settings are collected from
            a set of configuration files. 
 The bottom of this page also lists all the command-line settings
            in effect for this instance of catalogd.

Prometheus Metrics Page

At /metrics_prometheus, under the main
              catalogd Web UI, the metrics are generated in
            Prometheus exposition format that Prometheus can consume for event
            monitoring and alerting. 
The /metrics_prometheus is not shown in the Web UI list of
            pages.



