Testing your Lambda functionCloudera Docs
Testing your Lambda function
Once you have built and verified your dataflow and uploaded it to the Cloudera DataFlow
    catalog, you can create your Lambda function.

After creating the Lambda function and configuring all necessary Environment
        Variables, you should test that you have configured all of the settings correctly before
        publishing the Lambda.
For this, you can use the Test tab of AWS Lambda Function
        details screen. Lambda provides you with many options for sample data, so you can easily
        create an example JSON document to simulate the events that your Lambda function will
        handle.
Click the Test button to run the data flow. If there are
        problems, you can inspect the log messages to understand the problem. If the logs do not
        provide enough details, you may need to adjust the log levels to gain more debugging
        information. Ror more information, see Adjusting logs levels.



The amount of time the Lambda function takes to run depends heavily on the data
        flow and the number of extensions it needs. Because the Lambda function may have to download
        some extensions from Nexus and perform initialization, a cold start may take longer time.
        Even 20-30 seconds is not uncommon for a data flow with several extensions, while other data
        flows may complete in 10 seconds.
After you run the function successfully, it may be helpful to run several
        additional iterations to understand how the function will perform when a cold start is not
        necessary. Again, this depends heavily upon the configured data flow and other services that
        it may interact with. A simple data flow may complete in as a short time as 10 milliseconds
        while a data flow that must perform complex transformations and reach out to one or more web
        services or databases for enrichment may take several seconds to complete.
It is important to adjust Lambda's timeout configuration on the Configuration > General configuration tab if the cold start takes longer than the amount of time allocated.


Related informationAdjusting logs levels