Defining your CDP Private Cloud Base data flowCloudera Docs
Defining your CDP Private Cloud Base data flow
To move data between cloud environments using NiFi site-to-site communication, you
        require a data flow in your CDP Private Cloud Base cluster that can
        send and receive data from the CDP Public Cloud cluster. To create this data flow, connect a
        processor to a Remote Process Group configured with HTTP and enable
        transmission.



You have defined your CDP Public Cloud data flow and configured Ranger
                        policies for site-to site communication.
You have the public FQDNs for your CDP Public Cloud cluster nodes.




 In your CDP Private Cloud Base cluster, launch the NiFi
                    UI and drag a GenerateFlowFile processor onto the canvas. 
For this use case, GenerateFlowFile creates 1MB files every
                    10 seconds.

Drag a Remote Process Group onto the NiFi canvas, configure HTTP protocol, and
                    specify one or more of the NiFi nodes running on your CDP Public Cloud cluster. 
After the site-to-site connection is initiated, the source NiFi cluster is
                    aware of the topology of the remote NiFi cluster and of any increase or decrease
                    of the size of the remote cluster. However, it is recommended that you specify
                    at least 2 nodes to ensure higher availability when the site-to-site connection
                    is
                        initiated.



Right-click the Remote Process group and select Enable
                        transmission.


Connect the GenerateFlowFile processor to the Remote Process
                    Group and select the Input Port that you created and
                    started on the remote cluster in CDP Public Cloud:






You can also define a connection from the Remote Process Group to another
                    component to download data made available by the remote cluster running in the
                    CDP Public Cloud environment. In the this example, the Remote Process Group is
                    connected to a funnel.







After you have defined the data flow for your CDP Private Cloud Base cluster, start the CDP Private Cloud Base data flow and confirm that the data is
                moving back and forth between the environments:
In the CDP Private Cloud Base environment, your data
                flow looks similar to the following:



In the CDP Public Cloud environment, your data flow will look similar to the
                following:





Parent topic: Moving data from CDP Private Cloud Base to Public Cloud with NiFi site-to-site