Start a test sessionCloudera Docs
Start a test session
To validate your draft, start a test session. This provisions a NiFi cluster where
        you can test your draft.
Starting a Test Session provisions NiFi resources, acting
            like a development sandbox for a particular draft. It allows you to work with live data
            to validate your data flow logic while updating your draft. You can suspend a test
            session any time and change the configuration of the NiFi cluster then resume testing
            with the updated configuration. 

Click start a test session in the banner on top of the
                        Canvas.






Click Start Test Session.
Test Session status   Initializing Test Session...
                    appears on top of the page.

Wait for the status to change to Active Test Session.
This may take several minutes.

Click Flow Options > Services to enable Controller Services.

Select a service you want to enable, then click  Enable Service and Referencing
                        Components. 
This option does not only enable the controller service, but also any
                    component that references it. This way, you do not need to enable the component
                    separately to run the test session. In the context of this tutorial, enabling
                    the 'AvroReader_Recent_Changes' controller service will also enable 'Filter
                    Edits', 'Route on Content Size', and 'Merge Edit Events' processors as
                    well.
Repeat this step for all Controller Services.

Click Back To Flow Designer to return to the flow design
                        Canvas.

Start the Get Recent Wikipedia Changes, Write
                        "Added Content" Events To File, and Write "Removed
                        Content" Events To File components by selecting them on the
                        Canvas then clicking 
                        Start.


All other components were auto-started when you selected the
                        Enable Service and Referencing Components
                    option.

Observe your first draft flow processing data.
On the Flow Design Canvas you can observe statistics on
                    your processors change as they consume and process data from Wikipedia. You can
                    also observe one or more blue Notification Pills,
                    providing information about the current task.




Parent topic: Tutorial: customizing a ReadyFlow