Assigning roles to user groupsCloudera Docs
Assigning roles to user groups


The following steps demonstrate how to add user groups to a role. In this example, an
                existing role Administrators Only is used.


Under the Members tab, in the
                        Users list, click EDIT
                        GROUP(S).




The Require all groups option ensures that only
                        members of ALL groups listed in the role membership fields have the role's
                        defined access.
In this example, Administrators Only role is shared by members of both
                            Administrators and Arcadians user groups. The
                            Require all groups should not be selected so that
                        all members of either group get the privileges of the role. However, if you
                        check the Require all groups option, only users who
                        are members of BOTH user groups get the privileges of the role.
note
There are two other ways a user can be a member of the role, even when
                            the Require all groups option is on:

If the user is named specifically in the
                                    Users section of the membership
                                page.
For roles that are imported, if the Groups
                                section is empty, and the user is a member of ANY Ranger group.


When you click EDIT GROUP(S), the Role
                            Assignment modal window appears.





There are several options to add groups to role membership:



Search
If you have a long list of groups in the
                                    Members section, use the
                                    Search box to find group names, select
                                them from the sub-list, and click ADD>> to
                                move them to the right side of the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Select
In the Members section, select the groups to
                                assign to the role and click ADD>> to move
                                them to the right side of the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Select All
To assign all groups to Members, mark Select
                                    All to get all group names and click
                                    ADD>> to move them to the right side of
                                the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Adding externally defined users; LDAP authentication
For convenience, the Role Assignment interface
                                supports adding user groups to the list of assignees that are not
                                stored locally. For example, you can add known groups available
                                through LDAP authentication in this manner.
Enter the new group name and click ADD>>.
                                After the new group name appears in the
                                    Members section, select it and click
                                    ADD>> to move the new group to the right
                                side of the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Remove
To remove users from the Members list, select
                                the user(s) on the right side panel and  click
                                    <<.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





The list of groups assigned to the role appears in the Role:
                            Administrators Only interface, under the
                            Members tab.


Click SAVE.
A confirmation of the role update appears briefly on the screen and the
                    members list is updated.




