Assigning roles to usersCloudera Docs
Assigning roles to users


The following steps demonstrate how to add users to a role. In this example, an
                existing role Test Role 1 is used.


Under the Members tab, in the
                        Users list, click EDIT
                    USER(S)
The Role Assignment modal window appears.



There are several options to add a user as a member:



Search
If you have a long list of users in the
                                    Members section, use the
                                    Search box to find user names, select
                                them from the sub-list, and click ADD>> to
                                move them to the right side of the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Select
In the Members section, select the users to
                                assign to the role and click ADD>> to move
                                them to the right side of the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Select All
To assign all users to Members, mark
                                    Select All to get all user names and
                                click ADD>> to move them to the right side of
                                the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Adding externally defined users; LDAP authentication
For convenience, the Role Assignment interface
                                supports adding usernames that are not stored locally. For example,
                                you can  add known usernames available through LDAP authentication
                                in this manner.
Enter the new user name and click ADD>>. After
                                the new user name appears in the Members
                                section, select it and click ADD>> to move
                                the new user to the right side of the modal window.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





Remove
To remove users from the Members list, select
                                the user(s) on the right side panel and click
                                    <<.
When you are ready, click APPLY.





The list of users assigned to the role appears in the Role: Test
                            Role 1 interface, under the Members
                        tab.


Click SAVE.
A confirmation of the role update appears briefly on the screen and the
                    members list is updated.




