Setting role privilegesCloudera Docs
Setting role privileges
Role privileges are separate components of the Role Based Access Control (RBAC) system
    in Data Visualization. They define the level of dataset access that a role is allowed to grant
    to the members of a specified role. For more information on possible permissions, see RBAC
      permissions.

The following steps demonstrate how to add role privileges to a role. In this example,
          Test Role 1 is used.


Add another privilege by clicking the ADD PRIVILEGE
          button.




The ADD PRIVILEGE modal window appears.
You can see that the default privilege type is at the Connection
            level, but it can be changed by selecting Role or
              Dataset from the list of Component
            Types.


In the Add Privilege modal window, under Component
            Type, select Role.

From Roles(s), select one of the roles.
 You can repeat this step to add more roles to this privilege.



After selecting the appropriate roles, click CREATE.




The Role privilege for the Visual Consumer role appears on the list of
            privileges.
By default, it contains all possible privileges for a role component:
Grant manage dataset
Grant manage dashboards
Grant view dashboards




Note the following:

The privilege type appears with the Roles icon.
The Grant view dashboards permission is mandatory if the other permissions
              exist, and cannot be removed. If you uncheck both Grant manage dashboards and
                Grant manage dataset, then the Grant view dashboards permission
              becomes mutable and can be unselected.
The Grant manage dashboards permission is mandatory if Grant manage
                dataset permission is, and cannot be removed. If you uncheck Grant manage
                dataset, it becomes mutable and can be unselected.
This privilege may be deleted by clicking the Delete
              icon.



For the role permission on Visual Consumer, select only the Grant view
            dashboards permission.

Repeat the previous steps twice, creating the following privileges:


On role Analyst, specify the Grant manage dashboards and Grant view
                dashboards permissions.
On role Data Admin, specify all permissions: Grant manage dataset,
                Grant manage dashboards, and Grant view dashboards.






Click SAVE at the top of the interface to save the
          updates.



The members that get this role, defined under the Members tab,
          can grant dataset access defined by the role-based privilege rows.
The selections in the rows indicate the level of privilages that each role, as defined
          on the Component line, receives. For example, Analysts can grant Manage and
            View privilages to users.
The dataset access permissions are granted to the roles defined on the component
          line.


Proceed to Setting connection
      privileges.

