Setting dataset privilegesCloudera Docs
Setting dataset privileges
Dataset privileges are separate components of the Role Based Access Control (RBAC)
    system in Data Visualization. Depending on the parameters of the business case, they may be
    specified identically (and at the same time) for a number of datasets, or set separately for
    each dataset. For more information on possible permissions, see RBAC
    Permissions.

The following steps demonstrate how to add dataset-level privileges to a role. In this
        example, Test Role 1 is used.


Add another privilege by clicking the ADD PRIVILEGE
          button.

In the Add Privilege modal window, from Component
            Type, select Dataset.

From Connection(s), select either All connections or one
          of the individual connections.
In this example, access to the samples connection is selected.

From Datasets(s), select either All datasets or one of
          the individual connections.
To select additional datasets, repeat this step. In this example, access to the
              Cereals, Iris, and World Life Expectancy datasets is selected.
            Notice that the datasets include the dataset ID.

The dataset privilege for the Iris, Cereals, and World Life
              Expectancy datasets appears on the list of privileges for the role.By
            default, it contains all possible privileges for a dataset component:
Manage dataset
Manage dashboards
View dashboards


Note the following:
The Dataset icon specifies the type.
Two of the permissions, Manage dashboards and View dashboards are
              mandatory if the privilege contains the Manage dataset permission, and cannot
              be removed. The checkboxes in these columns are filled in and fixed. 
If you unselect Manage dataset, then the Manage dashboards becomes
                  mutable, and can be unselected.
If you uncheck Manage dashboards, View dashboards becomes mutable,
                  and can be unselected.

You can delete this privilege by clicking the Delete
              icon.


Click SAVE at the top of the interface to save the changes to
          the role.


The role definition for Test Role 1 is now complete and it has 6 distinct
        components.





Related informationRBAC permissions