Accessing Hive files in OzoneCloudera Docs
Accessing Hive files in Ozone
 Learn how to set up policies to give users access to Hive external files in Ozone.
        For example, if Ozone users are running SparkSQL statements that query Hive tables, you must
        set up an Ozone access policy and Ozone file system access policy.

When Ranger is enabled in the cluster, any user other than the default admin user,
                "om" requires the necessary Ranger permissions and policy updates to access the
                Ozone filesystem. To create a Hive external table that points to the Ozone
                filesystem, the "hive" user should have the required permissions in Ranger.
In this task, you first enable Ozone in the Ranger service, and then set up the
                required policies.


In Cloudera Manager, click Clusters > Ozone > Configuration to navigate to the configuration page for Ozone.

Search for ranger_service, and enable the
                    property.

Click Clusters > Ranger > Ranger Admin Web UI, enter your user name and password, then click Sign
                        In.
                
The
                        Service
                        Manager for Resource Based Policies page is
                    displayed in the Ranger console.



Click the cm_ozone preloaded resource-based service to
                    modify an Ozone policy.

In the cm_ozone policies page, click the
                        Policy ID or click  Edit against the "all - volume,
                    bucket, key" policy to modify the policy details.

In the Allow Conditions pane, add the "hive" user,
                    choose the necessary permissions, and then click
                    Save.




Click the Service Manager link in the
                    breadcrumb
                    trail and then click the
                        Hadoop SQL preloaded resource-based service to update
                    the Hadoop SQL URL policy.






In the Hadoop SQL policies page, click the
                        Policy ID or click  Edit against the "all - url" policy
                    to modify the policy details.
By default, "hive", "hue", "impala", "admin" and a few other users are
                    provided access to all the Ozone URLs. You can select users and groups in
                    addition to the default. To grant everyone access, add the "public" group to the
                    group list. Every user is then subject to your allow conditions.




Create a Hive external table having source data in
                Ozone.Also, it is recommended that you set certain Hive configurations before
                querying Hive tables in Ozone.

Related informationSet up Ozone securityCloudera's Ranger documentationCreating an Ozone-based Hive external table