Configuring queue mapping to use the user name from the application tag using Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring queue mapping to
    use the user name from the application tag using Cloudera Manager
You learn how to add service users to the YARN queue by following a mapping procedure. 
You can configure queue mapping to use the user name from the application tag instead
      of the proxy user who submitted the job. You can add only service users like
      hive using the
      yarn.resourcemanager.application-tag-based-placement.username.whitelist
      property and not normal users.  
     When a user runs Hive queries, HiveServer2 submits the query in the queue mapped from
      an end user instead of a hive user. For example, when user alice submits a
      Hive query with doAs=false mode, job will run in YARN as
        hive user. If application-tag based scheduling is enabled, then the job
      will be placed to a target queue based on the queue mapping configuration of user
      alice. For more information about queue mapping configurations, see Manage placement rules. For information about Hive access, see Apache Hive documentation.


In Cloudera Manager, select the YARN service. 
Click the Configuration tab. 
Search for ResourceManager. In the Filters
          pane, under Scope, select ResourceManager. 
In ResourceManager Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
            yarn-site.xml  add the following: 
            
Enable the application-tag-based-placement property to enable
                application placement based on the user ID passed using the application tags.
                Name: yarn.resourcemanager.application-tag-based-placement.enable
Value: true
Description: Set to "true" to enable application placement based on the user ID passed using the application tags. When it is enabled, it checks for the userid=<userId> pattern and if found, the application will be placed onto the found user's queue, if the original user has the required rights on the passed user's queue.
Add the list of users in the allowlist who can use application tag based placement. The
                applications when the submitting user is included in the allowlist, will be placed onto the queue
                defined in the yarn.scheduler.capacity.queue-mappings property
                defined for the user from the application tag. If there is no user defined, the
                submitting user will be used.
                Name: yarn.resourcemanager.application-tag-based-placement.username.whitelist
Value: 
Description: Comma separated list of users who can use the application tag based placement, if "yarn.resourcemanager.application-tag-based-placement.enable" is enabled.


Restart the ResourceManager service for the changes to apply.



Parent topic: Configuring access to Hive on YARN