Using S3Guard for Consistent S3 MetadataCloudera Docs
Using S3Guard for Consistent S3 Metadata
S3Guard was written to compensate for eventual consistency in Amazon S3, where
    directory listings lagged behind the additional update and deletion of files; newly created
    files may not be immediately readable, and newly deleted files still accessible. Amazon DynamoDB
    was used as the consistent store to allow S3A clients to share their view of the
    store.
Amazon S3 became consistent in November 2020. As a result, S3Guard is no longer required.
      Disabling S3Guard avoids S3/S3guard consistency issues where non-S3A clients changed the store
      without updating the dynamo DB tables, and eliminates all costs incurred when storing and
      accessing data in Dynamo DB. 
If you are using S3Guard, we recommend you to disable it. For information about disabling
      S3Guard, see Disabling S3Guard and Destroying a S3Guard
        Database.

Introduction to S3GuardAmazon S3 is an object store, not a filesystem. There are no directories, only     objects. The S3A connector lets Hadoop, Hive and Spark applications see files in a directory     tree, but really they are working on the objects underneath, by listing them and working on each     one one-by-one.Configuring S3GuardYou can enable S3Guard when configuring your CDP environment. Monitoring and Maintaining S3GuardThe DynamoDB console on AWS allows you to monitor the workload on     DynamoDB.Disabling S3Guard and Destroying a S3Guard Database You can disable S3Guard and destroy a S3Guard database.Pruning Old Data from S3Guard TablesS3Guard keeps tombstone markers of deleted files. It is good to clean these regularly,         just to keep costs down. This can be done with the hadoop s3guard prune         command. Importing a Bucket into S3GuardThe hadoop s3guard import command can list and import a bucket's     metadata into a S3Guard table. This is harmless if the contents are already     imported.Verifying that S3Guard is Enabled on a BucketWhen S3Guard is working, apart from some messages in the logs, there is no obvious clue     that it is enabled. To verify that a bucket does have S3Guard enabled, use the command-line     command hadoop s3guard bucket-info. This will print bucket information, and can     be used to explicitly check that a bucket has s3guard enabled.Using the S3Guard CLIThe S3Guard CLI offers other maintenance commands. for information on how to use         them, refer toApache documentation.S3Guard: Operational IssuesThere are various issues and limitations that you must consider when working with     S3Guard.Parent topic: Working with Amazon S3