Encrypting Data on S3Cloudera Docs
Encrypting Data on S3
 Amazon S3 supports a number of encryption mechanisms to better secure the data in
    S3.


In Server-Side Encryption (SSE), the data is
          encrypted before it is saved to disk in S3, and decrypted when it is read. This
          encryption and decryption takes place in the S3 infrastructure, and is transparent to
          (authenticated) clients.


In Client-Side Encryption (CSE), the data is
          encrypted and decrypted on the client, that is, inside the AWS S3 SDK. This mechanism is
          not supported in Hadoop due to incompatibilities with most applications. Specifically, the
          amount of decrypted data is often less than the file length, breaking all the code which
          assumes that the the content of a file is the same size as that stated in directory
          listings.


noteCDP only supports Server-Side Encryption (SSE) and does not
      support Client-Side Encryption (CSE).
For this server-side encryption to work, the S3 servers require secret keys to encrypt
      data, and the same secret keys to decrypt it. These keys can be managed in three
      ways:


SSE-S3: By using Amazon S3-Managed Keys


SSE-KMS: By using AWS Key Management Service


SSE-C: By using customer-supplied keys


In general, the specific configuration mechanism can be set via the property
        fs.s3a.server-side-encryption-algorithm in core-site.xml.
      However, some encryption options require extra settings. Server Side encryption slightly slows
      down performance when reading data from S3.
It is possible to configure encryption for specific buckets and to mandate encryption for a
      specific S3 bucket.

Related informationTroubleshooting S3 and S3GuardSSE-S3: Amazon S3-Managed Encryption KeysIn SSE-S3, all keys and secrets are managed inside S3. This is the simplest     encryption mechanism.SSE-KMS: Amazon S3-KMS Managed Encryption KeysAmazon offers a pay-per-use key management service, AWS     KMS. This service can be used to encrypt data on S3 using keys which can be centrally     managed and assigned to specific roles and IAM accounts.SSE-C: Server-Side Encryption with Customer-Provided Encryption KeysIn SSE-C, the client supplies the secret key needed to read and write     data.Configuring Encryption for Specific BucketsS3A's per-bucket configuration mechanism can be used to configure the encryption     mechanism and credentials for specific buckets. Encrypting an S3 Bucket with Amazon S3 Default EncryptionTo guarantee that all data uploaded to a bucket is encrypted, it is possible to set a         default encryption option for a bucket in the AWS management console.Performance Impact of EncryptionServer Side encryption slightly slows down performance when reading data from S3,     both in the reading of data during the execution of a query, and in scanning the files prior to     the actual scheduling of work.Parent topic: Working with Amazon S3