Configuring Access to S3 on CDP Public CloudCloudera Docs
Configuring Access to S3 on CDP Public Cloud
IDBroker is a REST API built as part of Apache Knox’s authentication services. It
    allows an authenticated user to exchange a set of credentials or a token for cloud vendor access
    tokens. It manages mapping LDAP users to FreeIPA cloud identities for data access. It performs
    identity mapping for access to object stores.
This section provides information about the options that are enabled by default. For
      information on how IDBroker works in CDP, see Cloud identity federation in the Management
        Console documentation.For Apache Hadoop applications to be able to interact with Amazon S3, they must know the AWS
      access key and the secret key. This can be achieved in multiple ways, including configuration
      properties, environment variables, and EC2 instance metadata. While the first two options can
      be used when accessing S3 from a cluster running in your own data center. IAM roles, which use
      instance metadata should be used to control access to AWS resources if your cluster is running
      on EC2.

Deployment Scenario
Authentication Options

Cluster runs on EC2
Use IAM roles to bind your EC2 VMs to a specific role, and so manage its access to
          AWS resources. IDBroker will provide authenticated users with the AWS credentials they
          need to access data in S3. There is no need to manually provide any AWS login credentials
          directly to users

Cluster runs in your own data center
Use configuration properties to authenticate. You can set the configuration
          properties globally or per-bucket. 

Temporary security credentials, also known as "session credentials", can be issued. These
      consist of a secret key with a limited lifespan, along with a session token, another secret
      which must be known and used alongside the access key. The secret key is never passed to AWS
      services directly. Instead it is used tosign the URL and headers of the HTTP request.
By default, the S3A filesystem client follows the following authentication chain:
The AWS login details are looked for in the job configuration settings.
The AWS environment variables are then looked for.
An attempt is made to query the Amazon EC2 Instance Metadata Service to retrieve
          credentials published to EC2 VMs.


Parent topic: Configuring Access to S3