Working with Amazon S3Cloudera Docs
Working with Amazon S3

The Amazon S3 object store is the standard mechanism to store,
      retrieve, and share large quantities of data in AWS.
The features of Amazon S3 include: 

Object store model for storing, listing, and retrieving data.


Support for objects up to 5 terabytes, with many petabytes of data allowed in a single
            "bucket".


Data is stored in Amazon S3 in buckets which are stored in different AWS regions.


Buckets can be restricted to different users or IAM roles.


Data stored in an Amazon S3 bucket is billed based on the size of data how long it is
            stored, and on operations accessing this data. In addition, you are billed when you
            transfer data between regions:


Data transfers between an Amazon S3 bucket and a cluster running in the same region
                are free of download charges (except in the special case of buckets in which data is
                served on a user-pays basis).


Data downloaded from an Amazon S3 bucket located outside the region in which the
                bucket is hosted is billed per megabyte.


Data downloaded from an Amazon S3 bucket to any host over the internet is also
                billed per-Megabyte.




Data stored in Amazon S3 can be backed up with Amazon
              Glacier.

The Hadoop client to S3, called "S3A", makes the contents of a bucket appear like a
      filesystem, with directories, files in the directories, and operations on directories and
      files. As a result, applications which can work with data stored in HDFS can also work with
      data stored in S3. However, since S3 is an object store, it has certain limitations that you
      should be aware of.

Limitations of Amazon S3Even though Hadoop's S3A client can make an S3 bucket appear to be a     Hadoop-compatible filesystem, it is still an object store, and has some limitations when acting     as a Hadoop-compatible filesystem. Configuring Access to S3IDBroker is a REST API built as part of Apache Knox’s authentication services. It     allows an authenticated user to exchange a set of credentials or a token for cloud vendor access     tokens. It manages mapping LDAP users to FreeIPA cloud identities for data access. It performs     identity mapping for access to object stores.Referencing S3 Data in ApplicationsYou can reference data in Amazon S3 using a URL starting with the s3a://     prefix followed by bucket name and path to file or directory.Configuring Per-Bucket SettingsYou can specify bucket-specific configuration values which override the common     configuration values.Encrypting Data on S3 Amazon S3 supports a number of encryption mechanisms to better secure the data in     S3.Using S3Guard for Consistent S3 MetadataS3Guard was written to compensate for eventual consistency in Amazon S3, where     directory listings lagged behind the additional update and deletion of files; newly created     files may not be immediately readable, and newly deleted files still accessible. Amazon DynamoDB     was used as the consistent store to allow S3A clients to share their view of the     store.Safely Writing to S3 Through the S3A CommittersThe S3A committers are three different committers used to commit work directly to     Mapreduce and Spark. The committers are enabled by default for Spark in CDP.Security Model and Operations on S3The security and permissions model of Amazon S3 is very different from this of a     UNIX-style filesystem: on Amazon S3, operations which query or manipulate permissions are     generally unsupported. Operations to which this applies include: chgrp,       chmod, chown, getfacl, and       setfacl. The related attribute commands getfattr       andsetfattr are also unavailable.S3A and Checksums (Advanced Feature)The S3A connector can be configured to export the HTTP etag of an object as a     checksum, by setting the option fs.s3a.etag.checksum.enabled to       true. When unset (the defaut), S3A objects have no checksum.A List of S3A Configuration PropertiesAll S3A client options are configured with options with the prefix       fs.s3a.Working with versioned S3 bucketsAWS S3 supports "Versioning" in buckets, where the bucket is configured to save older         versions of objects. When an object is overwritten (or even deleted), the old version can be         accessed when a request is made for the object using the original version ID.Working with Third-party S3-compatible Object StoresThe S3A Connector can work with third-party object stores; some vendors test the     connector against their stores —and even actively collaborate in developing the connector     in the open source community.Improving Performance for S3AYou can consider various options for improving performance when working with data     stored in Amazon S3.Troubleshooting S3 and S3GuardIt can be a bit troublesome to get the S3A connector to work, with classpath and         authentication being the usual trouble spots. Use the tips provided in the following links         to troubleshoot errors.