Creating a workspaceCloudera Docs
Creating a workspace
In addition to the standard public workspace that is shared by all users, and the
    single private workspace that each user has, administrators and users who have the Create
      Workspace privilege can create custom workspaces in CDP Data Visualization.

Workspaces may be shared with specific users and user groups to develop and view dashboards
        that are inherently useful to their line of business. Within each of these workspaces, each
        user has a defined access level: View Only, Edit, or Manage.
Only users with Create Workspace system-level privilege can perform this
          task.noteAll administrators have full privileges. Users without a defined access level
          cannot see the workspace or any of its artifacts.
For information about the different types of workspaces, see Workspaces in CDP Data
          Visualization.


On the main navigation bar, click Visuals.






On the left side menu, find the Workspaces section.






Click the Plus icon.

noteThis icon is only available to users who have the Create Workspace
            privilege.


In the Create Workspace modal window, enter the
            Name and Description of the new
          workspace.





Optional: 
In the user textbox, enter the account name of an existing
          user.
Optional: 
In the group textbox, enter the name of one or more existing
          user groups. To include everyone, type Everyone.

note
If a user has a permission either through her username and group membership, or
              through multiple groups, that user has the broadest possible permissions. For example,
              if the user is part of "visual viewer" group and "dashboard editor" group (which has
                manage permission), that user has the manage permission.
As you enter a user or group name, the autocomplete functionality makes it easier to
              find an existing user or group.



Click Add.

After adding all users and user groups, select the appropriate type of access:
            View Only, Edit, or
            Manage.


View onlyUsers with this privilege can see the contents of the
                workspace, and access them in view mode. However, they are unable to make any
                changes.
EditUsers with this privilege can move dashboards in and out of the
                workspace. With adequate dataset permissions, they can also edit, delete, or clone
                any visuals, dashboards, or apps within this workspace.
ManageUsers with this privilege can change the name of the
                workspace, delete it when it is empty, add and remove users, and add and remove user
                groups. This also includes all Edit privileges.

noteThe user admin is part of the access matrix, as the creator of this new
            workspace. If the creator is removed, and the creator is not an administrator, she loses
            access to this workspace.


Click Save.

The workspace appears in the list of workspaces. This new workspace does not have any
            dashboards or visuals assigned to it at this time.



Related informationWorkspaces in CDP Data Visualization 