



























































Data-Driven Transformation for Telcos























































Telco Resource Kit
Data-Driven Transformation for Telcos
Using data, analytics and AI, Communication Service Providers are able to drive down churn by up to 10%, accelerate network rollout, and reduce fraud by up to 20%. Learn more about how you can use real-time data, advanced analytics and machine learning to drive business impacts.
 





















 



 







 











Your Telco Resource Kit












      
      
      Ebook
      






Top 5 Data & Analytics Use Cases for Telcos









 



 






 Download now










      
      
      Webinar
      






Real-Time analytics for Telcos









 



 






 Watch now










      
      
      Solution Brief
      






An Enterprise Data Cloud for Telcos









 



 






 Read now











 


















Success story
Deutsche Telekom: reducing revenue loss from fraud by up 20 percent.
 









 Watch the video




 Read case study












 











 Learn more about Telco
















                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




