Drill-through data discoveryCloudera Docs
Drill-through data discovery
CDP Data Visualization lets you navigate from one dashboard to another, with parameter
    passing.

Dashboards support drill through data discovery, where clicking on an element of the visual
        in a dashboard opens a target dashboard. You can configure drill-through to pass parameters
        to the target visual.
Drill-through navigation has the following restrictions:

The navigation link is at the level of the dashboard; you cannot specify a particular
          visual as a target.

The parameters used in drill-through data discovery include these: 

Parameters passed to the source visual from a URL
Parameters that correspond to the clicked element
When navigating within an application, application scope parameters



The parameters not supported in drill-through data discovery are:

Parameters outside the application scope
Explicit parameters defined on the source visual



Follow this procedure to enable drill-through data discovery.


With the dashboard in Edit mode, click an element of a visual, and select the
            Navigate to Dashboard option from the menu.




The Pick a dashboard window modal. is displayed.


Specify the option Pass current parameters when
          navigating.

Click the Open Target Dashboard in menu, and select one of the options:


Current Tab
New Tab
New Window






You can use the Search bar to find the desired target dashboard,
          and then select it by clicking one of the results.




Alternatively, you can expand one of the datasets, and select one of its
            dashboards.





To check that the configuration leads to the correct dashboard, with correct options,
          click on an element in the dashboard, and note the Navigate to
            ID:145 in the drop-down menu.






Click Save to preserve the changes to the dashboard.

Click View to change to View
          mode.

In View mode, click an element of a graph. In this example, we are clicking on a
          bubble that represents Argentina.

When the target dashboard is displayed, it preserves the parameters of the click, and
            builds the target visuals accordingly.






