Drill-into data discoveryCloudera Docs
Drill-into data discovery 
In CDP Data Visualization, You can drill into your data to view subsets of data across
    other dimensions.

Drill-into enables you to discover the more granular information for a particular data
        point by examining other dimensions of your data. It uses the exact portion of the graph you
        click to determine the filters, and the selected field as the new horizontal axis. You may
        further limit the fields available in drill-into.
noteDrill-into data discovery is available on Bar, Line, Area, Grouped Bars, and Map
        (choropleth only) visuals, and also on trellised charts of these visual types. 


To discover data, you must first enable the Show Drill Into context
          menu option in the General menu. For instructions, see
          Enabling Drill Into Context Menu.

Open a dashboard that contains the visual you are examining. This example shows it
          in Edit view.Hover over the visual to determine what portion of the graph to examine
          further.
In this example, the line for Europe, in year 1990 is selected. These
            values become filters in the visual generated by the drill-into choice.

Click the selected part of the graph.Data Visualization expands to show
          the available data discovery options.Select the Drill Into option, and then select the
          appropriate field from the drop-down menu. 
noteYou have an option to limit the available fields. See Limiting drill-into
              options.
In this example, the country field is selected.



 The original visual is replaced with a version that implements the filters specified
        earlier: Europe in year 1990. The field chosen earlier specifies the
        horizontal axis, where appropriate. In Choropleth Map visuals, it changes the granularity of
        regions represented, moving from County, to State, to County, and so on.



Limiting drill-into optionsBy default, all dimensions are visible when implementing drill-into data discovery, but     you can limit the available fields to a smaller subset.