Filtering all visuals in a dashboardCloudera Docs
Filtering all visuals in a dashboard
You can discover your data, by filtering all visuals in the dashboard, based on the
    selected element of the source visual.

The Filter All data discovery mode lets you to define a visual in
        the dashboard as a 'source', so clicking on a specific element of the source controls the
        appearance of other visuals in the same dashboard. The source sends filter parameters to the
        target visuals, which they use to define the output. Keep in mind that any visual can be
        both a source and a target when passing filter parameters. 


To discover data in View mode, you must first enable the
        context menu, as described in Displaying Context Menus Within Visuals.
The following conditions apply to the Filter All functionality:

This method of data discovery works across visuals in a single dashboard.

Scope matters:

By default, the source visual sends parameters with Explicit Scope. To change this,
              select the Dataset Scope. See Sending Parameters with Dataset Scope.

By default, the target visuals receive parameters with Dataset Scope. To change
                this select the Explicit Scope. See Using Parameters with Explicit Scope.
When the target visual receives filter parameters with Explicit Scope, it must have
                the corresponding dataset fields on the Filters shelf.




Depending on your use case, you may have to de-select the sending of aggregates as
            parameters. See Sending Aggregates as Parameters.
The following steps show you how to set up a dashboard with Filter All data
            discovery options, using dataset scope.




Prepare target visualsIn this example, you can see the settings for two sample target visuals.Prepare source visualsIn this example, a bar visual World Population is used as the source     (controlling) visual.Prepare and use the dashboardIn this example, a new dashboard is created that displays both the source and the     target visuals and filters are also used.