Using context menu optionsCloudera Docs
Using context menu options
You have several approaches to data discovery from the context menu of the dashboard in
    CDP Data Visualization.
You can view the context menu at both the dashboard and the visual level. Context menus can
      be specific to the dashboard or visuals, or common to both. Additionally, you can use context
      menus directly on the graphical elements of the visual (for example, a particular bubble in
      the packed bubbles visual), or on the legend for the visual. 
Context menu options only in dashboards
Context menu options only in visuals
Context menu options common to both dashboards and visuals

In addition to using the context menu options to discover your data, you can drill up and
      down the hierarchical tree by Creating New Dimension Hierarchies. See Drill-down and
      drill-up data discovery.
Context menu options only in dashboards
In dashboard Edit mode, you can enable the following three options. The setting of
        these options control the behavior of context menu options in View mode.

No action on click

This option shows the context menu in View mode, but does not filter the
              target visuals on clicking any mark of the source visual. You must click the
                Filter All  option in the context menu to filter target
              visuals in the dashboard, based on the selected element of the source visual.

Show context menu on click

When you enable context menus at the dashboard level through the Displaying Context Menus Within Visual setting
              option in the General menu, the No Action on Click
              context menu appears as Show Context Menu on Click. If you disable the context
              menus, the option appears as No Action on Click.

Enable filter on click

In View mode, if you click on a mark of a visual, this option filters the
              target visuals in the dashboard, based on the selected element of the source visual.
              Context menu is not visible in this option. In Edit mode, you can test the
              filter behavior by clicking on Test click behavior. 

Navigate to Dashboard

In View mode, if you click on a mark of a visual, it navigates you to a
              different dashboard. See Drill-through data discovery.



Context menu options only in visuals
The following context menu options are only available in visual Edit mode. These
        options are enabled by default. 

Include

This option enables you to click a mark of the visual and include selected values in
              the filter shelf of the visual designer.
 See Filter all data discovery. 

Exclude

When you click on a mark of a visual, this option enables you to add an expression in
              the filter shelf of the visual designer that excludes the selected values in the
              visual. See Filter data using the exclude option in the context menu.



Context menu options common to both dashboards and visuals
The following options appear at both the dashboard and the visual level.

Filter All 

This option is enabled by default. 
This option filters all the target visuals in the dashboard, based on the selected
              element of the source visual. See Filter all data discovery.

Drill Into 

In Visual Designer, you must first enable Show Drill Into context
                menu option in the General menu. This setting is
              available only on Bar, Line, Area, and Grouped Bar visual types. See Enabling Drill Into Context Menu.
This option enables you to view subsets of data across other dimensions. See Drill
              into data discovery.

Show Detailed Data 

In Visual Designer, you must first enable Show detailed data
              option in the Marks menu. See Showing Detail Data Button in Context
              Menu.
This option enables you to click on a mark of a visual, such as specific bar, slice
              of radial, and so on, to view the data directly associated with that portion of the
              plot. See Detailed data discovery.




