Configuring Clusters and ReplicationsCloudera Docs
Configuring Clusters and Replications
Learn how to add and specify clusters and replications .
In order for SRM to replicate data to or from clusters, you need to: 
Specify cluster aliases
Specify cluster connection information
Add and enable replications
Specifying your clusters and enabling replications does not start replication of data
        itself. When a clusters and replications are added with the following method to the
        configuration, SRM will connect and set up communication with them, but will not
        automatically replicate any data. To start replicating data you need to specify which topics
        to replicate with the srm-control command line tool.Use the
        following steps as reference when you want to add new clusters or replications to your
        deployment.

In Cloudera Manager select Streams Replication Manager. Go to Configuration.Specify cluster aliases:
          
Find the Streams Replication Manager
                Cluster alias. property.
Add a comma
              delimited list of cluster aliases. For example:
primary, secondary
Cluster aliases are arbitrary names
              defined by the user. Aliases specified here are used in other configuration properties
              and with the srm-control tool to refer to the clusters added for
              replication.
Specify cluster connection
          information:
Find the
                streams.replication.manager's replication configs
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines
              for each cluster alias you have specified in the Streams Replication
                Manager Cluster alias. property
Add connection information for your
              clusters. For example:
primary.bootstrap.servers=primary_host1:9092,primary_host2:9092,primary_host3:9092
secondary.bootstrap.servers=secondary_host1:9092,secondary_host2:9092,secondary_host3:9092

Each cluster has to be added to a new line. If a cluster has multiple hosts, add
                them to the same line but delimit them with commas.

Add and enable
          replications:
Find the
                streams.replication.manager's replication configs
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines
              for each unique replication you want to add and enable.
Add and enable your replications. For example:
primary->secondary.enabled=true
secondary->primary.enabled=true


Enter a Reason for change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart Streams Replication Manager.

Replicating data to or from the specified clusters is now
      possible.
Use the srm-control tool to kick off replication by adding topics or
      groups to the allowlist.

Related informationsrm-control