Configuring Properties Not Exposed in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring Properties Not Exposed in Cloudera Manager
Learn how to configure configuration properties not exposed in Cloudera
    Manager.

In addition to the configuration properties exposed directly for configuration through
        Cloudera Manager, SRM accepts a number of additional SRM specific properties as well as all
        Kafka client properties available in the version of Kafka that you are using. Properties not
        exposed directly can be set through the streams.replication.manager's replication
          configs property. For a comprehensive list of SRM specific properties, see the
        configuration properties reference. For a comprehensive list of Kafka client properties, see
        the upstream Apache Kafka documentation.
Configuration properties for SRM can be set on three different levels, which are the
        following: 
Top level: Top level or global configuration is achieved by adding the property
            on its own. For example:replication.factor=3
Cluster level: Cluster level configuration can be achieved by prepeding the
            configuration property with a cluster alias specified in Streams Replication
              Manager Cluster alias.. For
            example:primary.replication.factor=3
Replication level:Replication level configuration can be achieved by prepeding
            the configuration property with the name of the replication. For
            example:primary->secondary.replication.factor=3



Make sure that cluster aliases and replications are configured. Otherwise cluster or
        replication level configuration is not possible. 


In Cloudera Manager select Streams Replication Manager. Go to Configuration.Configure properties not
          exposed in Cloudera Manager:
Find the
                streams.replication.manager's replication configs
              property.
Click the add button and add
              new lines for each additional property you want to configure.
Add configuration
              properties. For example:
replication.factor=3

Enter a Reason for change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart Streams Replication Manager.

Configuration properties not directly exposed in Cloudera Manager are
      configured.

Related informationConfiguration Properties ReferenceConfiguration Properties Reference for Properties Available in Cloudera Manager