Configuring the Driver Role Target ClustersCloudera Docs
Configuring the Driver Role Target Clusters
Learn about Streams Replication Manager Driver role target clusters and how to
    configure them.

The Streams Replication Manager Driver Role is responsible for connecting to the specified
        clusters and performing replication between them. The driver can be installed on one or more
        hosts within a cluster.
The clusters the driver connects to are the clusters that you specify with the
          Streams Replication Manager Cluster alias. and
          streams.replication.manager's replication configs properties.
Target clusters of the driver are clusters that the driver writes data to. By default when
        the driver is started it will connect to all clusters, gather data from them, and write to
        all of them. In other words, by default a driver targets all clusters in your configuration.
        However, in a more complex deployment this setup is not ideal, as the driver role instances
        can become overburdened. In cases like these Cloudera recommends that you limit the number
        of clusters that each driver targets.
This can be done with the streams replication manager driver target
          cluster property, which allows you to specify which cluster or clusters the
        driver targets.
When you specify a driver target, the driver still connects to all clusters and gathers
        data from them. However, it will only write to the clusters specified.
Configuring driver targets and limiting the number of clusters each instance of the driver
        writes to is essential in an advanced deployment as it allows you to distribute replication
        workloads. 
By default the streams replication manager driver target cluster
        property is left empty, meaning that all clusters are targeted. The property accepts any
        cluster alias that is specified in Streams Replication Manager Cluster
          alias.. When adding multiple cluster aliases, delimit them with a comma.


In Cloudera Manager select Streams Replication Manager. Go to Configuration.Find the streams
                replication manager driver target cluster property.Add the cluster aliases that you want
              the driver role to target. For
              example:
primary, secondary
Enter a Reason for change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart Streams Replication Manager.

Driver targets are configured. Drivers only write data to the targeted
      clusters.

