Protocol between consumer and brokerCloudera Docs
Protocol between consumer and broker
Get to know how the protocol works, what messages are going on the wire, and how that
    contributes to the overall behavior of the consumer.  
When discussing the internals of the consumers, there are a couple of basic terms to
      know:

Heartbeat
When the consumer is alive and is part of the consumer group, it sends heartbeats. These
          are short periodic messages that tell the brokers that the consumer is alive and
          everything is fine.
Session
Often one missing heartbeat is not a big deal, but how do you know if a consumer is not
          sending heartbeats for long enough to indicate a problem? A session is such a time
          interval. If the consumer didn’t send any heartbeats for longer than the session, the
          broker can consider the consumer dead and remove it from the group.
Coordinator
The special broker which manages the group on the broker side is called the coordinator.
          The coordinator handles heartbeats and assigns the leader. Every group has a coordinator
          that organizes the startup of a consumer group and assist whenever a consumer leaves the
          group.
Leader
The leader consumer is elected by the coordinator. Its job is to assign partitions to
          every consumer in the group at startup or whenever a consumer leaves or joins the group.
          The leader holds the assignment strategy, it is decoupled from the broker. That means
          consumers can reconfigure the partition assignment strategy without restarting the
          brokers.

Startup Protocol
As mentioned before, the consumers are working usually in groups. So a major part of the
        startup process is spent with figuring out the consumer group.
At startup, the first step is to match protocol versions. It is possible that the broker
        and the consumer are of different versions (the broker is older and the consumer is newer,
        or vice versa). This matching is done by the API_VERSIONS request.
Figure 1. Startup Protocol


The next step is to collect cluster information, such as the addresses of all the brokers
        (prior to this point we used the bootstrap server as a reference), partition counts, and
        partition leaders. This is done in the METADATA request.
After acquiring the metadata, the consumer has the information needed to join the group. By
        this time on the broker side, a coordinator has been selected per consumer group. The
        consumers must find their coordinator with the FIND_COORDINATOR
        request.
After finding the coordinator, the consumer(s) are ready to join the group. Every consumer
        in the group sends their own member-specific metadata to the coordinator in the
          JOIN_GROUP request. The coordinator waits until all the consumers have
        sent their request, then assigns a leader for the group. At the response plus the collected
        metadata are sent to the leader, so it knows about its group.
The remaining step is to assign partitions to consumers and propagate this state. Similar
        to the previous request, all consumers send a SYNC_GROUP request to the
        coordinator; the leader provides the assignments in this request. After it receives the sync
        request from each group member, the coordinator propagates this member state in the
        response. By the end of this step, the consumers are ready and can start consuming.

Consumption Protocol
When consuming, the first step is to query where should the consumer start. This is done in
        the OFFSET_FETCH request. This is not mandatory: the consumer can also
        provide the offset manually. After this, the consumer is free to pull data from the broker.
        Data consumption happens in the FETCH requests. These are the long-pull
        requests. They are answered only when the broker has enough data; the request can be
        outstanding for a longer period of time.
Figure 2. Consumption Protocol


From time to time, the application has to either manually or automatically save the offsets
        in an OFFSET_COMMIT request and send heartbeats too in the
          HEARTBEAT requests. The first ensures that the position is saved while
        the latter ensures that the coordinator knows that the consumer is alive.

Shutdown Protocol
The last step when the consumption is done is to shut down the consumer gracefully. This is
        done in one single step, called the LEAVE_GROUP protocol.
Figure 3. Shutdown Protocol




Parent topic: Kafka consumers