Apache Impala OverviewCloudera Docs
Apache Impala Overview
The Apache Impala provides high-performance, low-latency SQL
    queries on data stored in popular Apache Hadoop file formats.
 The Impala solution is composed of the following components.
Impala
The Impala service coordinates and executes queries received from
            clients. Queries are distributed among Impala nodes, and these nodes
            then act as workers, executing parallel query fragments. 

Hive Metastore
Stores information about the data available to Impala. For
            example, the metastore lets Impala know what databases are available
            and what the structure of those databases is. As you create, drop,
            and alter schema objects, load data into tables, and so on through
            Impala SQL statements, the relevant metadata changes are
            automatically broadcast to all Impala nodes by the dedicated catalog
            service.
Clients
Entities including Hue, ODBC clients, JDBC clients, Business
            Intelligence applications, and the Impala Shell can all interact
            with Impala. These interfaces are typically used to issue queries or
            complete administrative tasks such as connecting to Impala. 

Storage for data to be queried



 Queries executed using Impala are handled as
      follows: 
 User applications send SQL queries to Impala through ODBC or JDBC,
          which provide standardized querying interfaces. The user application
          may connect to any impalad in the cluster. This
            impalad becomes the coordinator for the query. 
 Impala parses the query and analyzes it to determine what tasks
          need to be performed by impalad instances across the
          cluster. Execution is planned for optimal efficiency. 
 Storage services are accessed by local impalad
          instances to provide data. 
 Each impalad returns data to the coordinating
            impalad, which sends these results to the client.
        

noteImpala cannot be used to access FULL ACID transactional tables yet however you can
        access ACID transactional tables with transaction scope at the row level using HIVE.


