Using Dynamic Materialized View EndpointsCloudera Docs
Using Dynamic Materialized View Endpoints
You can use static or dynamic REST endpoints when creating Materialized Views in SQL
  Stream Builder. After setting filters for the Materialized View query, you can further filter down
  the results by using variables in the endpoint URL.
Difference between static and dynamic endpoints
When using a static endpoint, the endpoint URL is a constant string. The logic of filtering is
    defined statically at the endpoint configuration and the results of the endpoint call will
    always reflect this. A static endpoint is one that only uses filters with static values. For
    example, in the following static endpoint the Filter is set to
     age greater than 0, and the endpoint URL is always
      /api/v1/query/5200/age:

Dynamic materialized view endpoints use filters that reference parameters instead of
    static values. The value of these parameters are specified when the endpoints are used.
To create a dynamic filter, after selecting the Value type as
     Dynamic, click on the  button to
    add a new parameter, or select the parameter from the drop-down list, if it had already been
    created previously. When creating a new parameter, you will be prompted to provide the name of
    the Dynamic Parameter.

After specifying the dynamic parameter, click Create. Once the job
    is running, you can test the Materialized View endpoint by clicking on the endpoint URL in the
    endpoint page:


For dynamic endpoints, you will be prompted for the values of the dynamic parameters when
    opening the REST endpoint of the Materialized View.

The dynamic parameters are defined as URL query parameters as shown
    below:<endpoint_URL>?key=<api_key>&limit=<max_records>&param1=<value1>&param2=<value2>...
The advantage of a dynamic endpoint is that by providing dynamic parameters and a
    corresponding value, you are able to filter the queried results at runtime, returning only the
    values you exactly need from that dataset.
You can use multiple dynamic parameters in the endpoint and you can also use the same dynamic
    parameter at the different filters to create more specific filtering methods for the results of
    the Materialized View query. When removing a filter from a Materialized View, the Dynamic
    parameter is not affected, which means that if a filter is deleted from the Materialized View
    query, the value for Dynamic Parameter still needs to be provided when opening the REST
    endpoint. The Dynamic Parameter needs to be deleted separately from the filter by clicking on
    the Name of the Dynamic Parameter, and selecting the delete option from the drop-down menu as
    shown in the following example:




Parent topic: Introduction to Materialized Views