Using SQL Stream Builder with Cloudera Data VisualizationCloudera Docs
Using SQL Stream Builder with Cloudera Data Visualization
You can create Business Intelligence reports from the Materialized Views created in SQL
    Stream Builder (SSB) using Cloudera Data Visualization. To integrate SSB with Data
    Visualization, you need to provide the PostgreSQL database information of SSB in Data
    Visualization.
After creating Materialized Views of your SQL Stream job, you
      can create visualized reports from your queried result with Cloudera Data Visualization.
        Cloudera Data Visualization enables you to explore data and communicate insights by using
        visual objects. You can connect to your data in Cloudera Data Platform (CDP), create
        state-of-the-art visualizations on top of your datasets, build informative dashboards and
        applications, and publish them anywhere across the data lifecycle.When connecting SSB
        with Cloudera Data Visualization, you need to provide the PostgreSQL database information
        that stores the Materialized View data in the Cloudera Data Visualization web interface. For
        the connection, you can find the PostgreSQL database information in Cloudera
      Manager.
You have created a Materialized View query on your running SQL
      job.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your cluster.

Select Cloudera Manager from the list of services.

Select Clusters > SQL Stream Builder.

Click Configuration.

Filter down the configuration parameters to Materialized View
            Engine.
The list of Materialized View Engine paramaters are displayed.

Save the ssb.mve.datasource related information.
Regarding the PostgreSQL information you need for the connection, the
            Database URL (JDBC) configuration parameter contains the
          PostgreSQL hostname, the PostgreSQL port and the PostgreSQL database name. 

When creating a data connection in Cloudera Data Visualization, you need to provide
          the connection information and credential as shown in the following example:
Database Name: ssb_mve
Database Host: docstest-1.docstest.root.hwx.site
Database Port: 5432
Database User: ssb_mve
Database Password: [***POSTGRESQL DATABASE
                PASSWORD***]

The Database User and Database Password for the Materialized
            View Engine is configured automatically when creating your Data Hub cluster. In case you
            cannot access the Database information, the Administrator of the environment can help to
            change the configuration as described in Configuring Materialized View database
              information.

After collecting the necessary information to the connection,
      you need to access the Cloudera Data Visualization web interface and create a connection to
      the PostgreSQL database of SSB using the SQL Stream Builder connector. For more information,
      see the Cloudera Data Visualization documentation.importantThe SQL Stream Builder is provided as a technical preview at this time in
        Cloudera Data Visualization. The tool is still under development and not recommended for a
        production environment.

Parent topic: Introduction to Materialized Views