Creating widgetsCloudera Docs
Creating widgets
Widgets can be created on Streaming SQL Console when a SQL query is submitted and the
        job is successfully running.


Ensure that you have a running job with in progress sampling or you have a
                    running job with a Materialized View endpoint.For more information, see the
                            
                        Running SQL
                            Stream jobs and 
                        Creating
                            Materialized Views documentation.



Navigate to the Streaming SQL Console.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your
                cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster from the list of
                Data Hub clusters.


Select Streaming SQL Console from the list of
                services.
The Streaming SQL Console opens in a new window.



Open a project from the Projects page of Streaming SQL
            Console.


Select an already existing project from the list by clicking the
                  Open button or Switch button.


Create a new project by clicking the New Project
                button.


Import a project by clicking the Import button.


You are redirected to the Explorer view of the project.

Click Dashboard from the Project Manager.






Click New Widgets.
The Widget editor page appears.

The Widget editor page consist of the following windows:
Data source, where you can select the job and
                                its corresponding data sources for the widget.
Visualization Type where you can provide
                                information and customize the visualization type.
Preview of the created widget, where you can
                                check the configurations and customization of the widget that will
                                be added to the Dashboard.


Select a Data Source.
The running jobs will be automatically displayed and categorized based on the
                    Sampler or the Materialized View endpoint name of the corresponding job.For more
                    information, see the 
                    Choosing data
                        sources section.

Select a Visualization type.
A preview is available from the selected data source and visualization
                    type.

Customize the Visualization based on the available options.
For more information, see the 
                    Customizing
                        visualization types section.

Click Create.
The created widget is added to the Dashboard
                        page.

You can manage the created widget on the Dashboard by clicking , and selecting Edit to go back to the widget editor
                    page and make changes to the visualization, or Remove to
                    delete the widget. 



You can create more widgets to the Dashboard page. You can
            resize and reorganize the widgets based on your requirements. For more information, see
            the 
            Managing widgets on the
                Dashboard section.

Parent topic: Using widgets for data visualization