Configuring SQL job settingsCloudera Docs
Configuring SQL job settings
If you need to further customize your SQL Stream job, you can add more advanced
    features to configure the job restarting method and time, threads for parallelism, sample
    behavior, exactly once processing and restoring from savepoint.
Before running a SQL query, you can configure advanced features by clicking on the
        Job Settings button at the SQL Editor.



Execution Mode
You can select the execution mode for the SQL job that can be a session or a per-job
          mode. For more information, see the 
          Executing SQL jobs in
            production mode documentation.
Job parallelism (threads)
The number of threads to start to process the job. Each thread consumes a slot on the
          cluster. When the Job Parallelism is set to 1, the job consumes the least resources. If
          the data source supports parallel reads, increasing the parallelism can raise the maximum
          throughput. For example, when using Kafka as a data source, setting the parallelism to the
          equal number as the partitions of the topic can be a starting point for performance
          tuning.
Restore From Savepoint
You can enable or disable restoring a SQL job from a Flink savepoint after stopping it.
          The savepoint is saved under hdfs:///user/flink/savepoints by
          default.
Sample Count
The number of sample entries shown under the Results tab. To have an unlimited number of
          sample entries, add 0 to the Sample Count value.
Sample Window Size
The number of sample entries to keep in under the Results tab. To have an unlimited
          number of sample entries, add 0 to the Sample Window Size value.
Sample Behavior
You have the following options to choose the behavior of the sampled data under the
          Results tab:
Sample all messages
Sample one message every second
Sample one message every five seconds

Enable Checkpointing
You can enable and disable checkpointing for a SQL job. By default the checkpointing is
          enabled.
Checkpoint Mode
Switching between checkpointing modes. You can choose between At Least Once or Exactly
          Once.
Checkpoint Interval
The time in milliseconds between checkpointing attempts.
Checkpoint Timeout
The maximum time in milliseconds until a checkpointing attempt is timed out.
Tolerable Checkpoint Failures
The number of checkpointing attempts until the job is aborted.
Failure Restart Strategy
Switching between restarting strategies when a job fails. You can choose between
          enabling and disabling auto recovery. By default auto recovery is enabled for
          checkpointing.


Adjusting logging configuration in Advanced SettingsYou can customize the logging configurations for the SQL Stream Builder (SSB) job on         the Streaming SQL Console in per-job mode or session mode. Adjusting the log configuration         enables you to control the log levels of all the underlying libraries: Flink, Hadoop, Kafka,         Zookeeper, other common libraries, and connectors to get more or less information in your         job’s log.Configuring YARN queue for SQL jobsYou can configure the YARN application queue with a custom value for a SQL job using the     Streaming SQL Console.Parent topic: SQL jobs