Executing SQL jobs in production modeCloudera Docs
Executing SQL jobs in production mode
As by default the SQL jobs are running in a session cluster, there is a risk in case of
    a cluster failure that every job is affected within that cluster. However, you can set a per-job
    production mode in SQL Stream Builder to create a dedicated environment for your production
    jobs.
Production mode means that the deployed SQL job (Flink job) runs in a separate SQL session
      and on a dedicated YARN cluster configured specifically for that particular job. You can set
      the execution mode in the Job Settings window, although the YARN
      execution target can be overwritten using a SET statement in the SQL
      Editor.
Setting production mode in Job Settings
To set the production mode for your SQL jobs in the Jobs Setting page,
        you need to select the execution mode with the following steps:
Click Job Settings at the SQL Editor.
Select PROD - Job runs in isolated Cluster at Execution Mode.
Add a SQL statement to the SQL Editor you want to execute.
Click Execute.


Setting YARN execution target in SQL Editor
To set the YARN execution mode for your SQL jobs in the SQL Editor,
        you need to use the SET statement, and execute the SQL query after defining
        the execution target and properties in the same
        window:set 'execution.target' = 'yarn-per-job';
set 'logging.configuration.file' = '/tmp/log4j.properties';
select * from datagen_table_1631781644;
In the above example, the execution target is set to per-job to create a new YARN
        application for the job. Setting the execution target to per-job allows you to have an
        individual cluster for the specific job. The additional properties that you configure using
        the SET statement overwrites the properties that are configured for the
        running session. However, when you set properties for the production mode, the settings of
        the session cluster are not affected.
noteYou can override the execution mode set in the Job Settings window
        using the SET statement in the SQL Editor.

Set the execution mode to per-job.
set 'execution.target' = 'yarn-per-job';

Add additional configuration to the production job.
Add a SQL statement you want to
            execute.Example:set 'execution.target' = 'yarn-per-job';
set 'state.backend' = 'rocksdb';
select * from faker_table_1631781644;
Click Execute.



Parent topic: Managing session for SQL jobs