Event Time tabCloudera Docs
Event Time tab
When using the Add Kafka table wizard on the Streaming SQL Console, you can configure
  the event time under the Event Time tab.
You can specify Watermark Definitions when adding a Kafka table. Watermarks use an event time
   attribute and have a watermark strategy, and can be used for various time-based operations. The
   Event Time tab provides the following properties to configure the event time field and watermark
   for the Kafka stream:
Input Timestamp Column: name of the timestamp column in the Kafka
     topic from where the watermarks are mapped to the Event Time Column of the Kafka table
Event Time Column: default or custom name of the resulting timestamp
     column where the watermarks are going to be mapped in the created Kafka table
Watermark seconds: number of seconds used in the watermark strategy.
     The watermark is defined by the current event timestamp minus this value.
You have the following options to configure the watermark strategy for the Kafka tables:
Using the default Kafka Timestamps setting
Using the default Kafka Timestamps setting, but providing custom name
     for the Event Time Column
Not using the default Kafka Timestamps setting, and providing all of
     the Kafka timestamp information manually
Not using watermark strategy for the Kafka table

Using the default Kafka Timestamp setting
By default, the Use Kafka Timestamps feature is enabled when you create
    the Kafka table. In the Event Time Column, the new event time field is
    extracted from the Kafka message header with the 'eventTimestamp' predefined
    column name.


After saving your changes, you can view the created DDL syntax for the table next to the SQL
    Editor on the Console page.
The following DDL example shows the default setting of the Event Time Column and Watermark
    Seconds where the corresponding fields were not
    modified.'eventTimestamp' TIMESTAMPS(3) METADATA FROM 'timestamp',
WATERMARK FOR 'eventTimestamp' AS 'eventTimestamp' - INTERVAL '3' SECOND

Using the default Kafka Timestamp setting with custom Event Time Column name
When you want to modify the timestamp field of the DDL from the stream itself, you must
    provide a custom name of the Event Time Column. You can also add a custom
    value to the Watermark Seconds. The following example shows that
     'ets' is the custom name for the Event Time Column,
    and '4' is the custom value for the Watermark
     Seconds.


The Event Time Column can only be modified if the following
    requirements are met for the timestamp field of the Input Timestamp
     Column:
The column type must be "long".
The format must be in epoch (in milliseconds since January 1, 1970).

The DDL syntax should reflect the changes made for the watermark strategy as shown in the
    following
    example:'ets' TIMESTAMP(3) METADATA FROM 'timestamp',
WATERMARK FOR 'ets' - INTERVAL '4' SECOND

Manually providing the Kafka timestamp information
When you want to manually configure the watermark strategy of the Kafka table, you can provide
    the timestamp column name from the Kafka source, and add a custom column name for the resulting
    Kafka table. Make sure that you provide the correct column name for the Input
     Timestamp Column that exactly matches the column name in the Kafka source data.
To manually provide information for the watermark strategy, disable the Use Kafka
     Timestamps feature using the toggle, and provide the following information to the
    column name fields:
Input Timestamp Column: name of the timestamp field in the Kafka
      source
Event Time Column: predefined 'eventTimestamp'
      name or custom column name of the timestamp field in the created Kafka table

As an example, you have a timestamp column in the source Kafka topic named
     'ts', and want to add a new timestamp column in your Kafka table as
     'event_time'. You provide the original timestamp column name in the
     Input Timestamp Column as 'ts', and add the custom
     'event_time' name to the Event Time Column. 

This results in that the watermarks from the 'ts' column is going to be
    mapped to the 'event_time' column of the created Kafka table. As
     'event_time' will become the timestamp column name in the Kafka table, you
    must use the custom name (in this example the 'event_time') when querying the
    Kafka stream. This configuration of the timestamp columns is optional.
The Event Time Column can only be modified if the following
    requirements are met for the timestamp field of the Input Timestamp
     Column:
The column type must be "long".
The format must be in epoch (in milliseconds since January 1, 1970).


Not using watermark strategy for Kafka table
In case you do not need any watermark strategies, disable the Use Kafka
     Timestamps feature using the toggle, and leave the column and seconds field
     empty.



noteFlink validates the input and output schemas of the data. You can only insert data into a
     Kafka topic, if the input and output data matches based on the schema defined for the topic.
     When customizing the timestamp column, make sure that the output data has the same
     schema.
noteWhen configuring the timestamp for the Kafka tables, you must consider the timezone
     setting of your environment as it can affect the results of your query. For more information,
     see the Known Issues in the Release Notes.



Parent topic: Configuring Kafka tables