Using SQL job notificationCloudera Docs
Using SQL job notification
You can set up notifications for SQL jobs using Streaming SQL Console to alert
    individuals and teams about job failures. The notifications include email and webhook alerts,
    which you can also group together for easier organization.
You can add job notifications to SQL jobs to send alerts and information when the status of
      the job is changed. The information in the notification can include the job name, job ID,
      cluster ID, last exception, and Flink job ID.
You can create the following notification actions for SQL jobs:
Email
Sending notification email to the provided email address
Webhook
Sending notification to a webhook address using POST and PUT 

You can also collect the Email and Webhook notifications into a Group to
      organize the notifications. These groups do not trigger any action, but serve as an
      organizational element.
After creating and adding the notification to a SQL job, anytime a change occurs for that
      job, a notification is sent to the specified address.
Enabling job notifications
Before you are able to use the job notifications, you need to enable it in Cloudera Manager
        and based on the notification type configure the email and webhook parameters.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your cluster.
Select Cloudera Manager from the list of services.
Select SQL Stream Builder from the list of services.
Click Configuration.
Search for Enable job notifications functionality.
Enable the job notifications by checking the checkbox.

The following parameters also need to be configured for the SQL Stream Builder (SSB)
        service in Cloudera Manager based on the type of the notification:

Configuration
Description



Job notifications monitoring interval
Sets the interval of the job monitoring in seconds.


Mail server host for job notifications
The host of the SMTP server for job failure notifications.


Mail server username for job notifications
The username to access the SMTP server for job failure notifications.


Mail server password for job notifications
The password to access the SMTP server for job failure notifications.


SMTP authentication for job notifications
Enable SMTP authentication for job notifications.


StartTLS for job notifications
Use the StartTLS command to establish a secure connection to the SMTP server
                  for job notifications.


Job notifications sender mail address
Sender mail address for job notifications.


Mail server port for job notifications
The port of the SMTP server for job failure notifications.


Job notifications webhook sender parallelism
Number of threads used by the job notification task to call user-specified
                  webhooks when notifying about a failed or missing job.

noteIn case the YARN cluster of a failed job no longer exists, SSB attempts to
          fetch the information about the failed job from the Flink History Server. If information
          cannot be fetched by the first attempt, SSB attempts to fetch the information again based
          on the interval configured for the History server fetch retry time
          parameter.

Creating job notifications
After enabling the job notification function, you can create email, webhook and group
        notifications with Streaming SQL Console.

Navigate to Streaming SQL Console.
Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your cluster.
Select the Streaming Analytics cluster from the list of Data
              Hub clusters.
Select SQL Stream Builder from the list of services.
Click Streaming SQL Console.The Streaming SQL
                  Console opens in a new window.

Open a project from the Projects page.
Select an already existing project from the list by clicking the
                Open button or Switch button.
Create a new project by clicking the New Project button.
Import a project by clicking the Import button.You are
                redirected to the Explorer view of the project.

Click  next to Job Notifications.
Select from the following options based on which notification type you want to use:EmailWebhookGroups



Click New Email Notification.The Create Email Notification window
                        appears.


Provide a Name for the notification.
Add the Email address you want to send the
                      notification.
Provide a Subject.
Provide a Message.The message of the Webhook
                        notification must be a valid JSON.You can add placeholder items to
                        the payload that will be converted into the specific job information. You
                        can add the placeholders in ${placeholder} format, and the
                        following placeholders are available:
jobName
jobStatus
jobStatusDescription
ssbJobId
flinkJobId
clusterId
lastException

Click Save.






Click New Webhook Notification.The Create Webhook Notification window
                        appears.


Provide a Name for the notification.
Select between POST or PUT
                      method.
Provide a Webhook address.
Provide a Payload to the webhook.warningThe payload must be a valid JSON object.You can add placeholder
                        items to the payload that will be converted into the specific job
                        information. You can add the placeholders in ${placeholder}
                        format, and the following placeholders are available:
jobName
jobStatus
jobStatusDescription
ssbJobId
flinkJobId
clusterId
lastException

Add HTTP Headers if needed by specifying the
                        Header Name and Value.
Click Save.






Click New Group Notification.The Create Group Notification window
                        appears.


Select from the already created Email and Webhook notifications that you
                      would like to add to this group.
Click Save.





Enabling notifications for a SQL job
After creating a job notification, you can enable it for a selected job from the
          Job Settings window.

Select Job Settings from the SQL
          Editor.
Click Job Notifications.
Search for the name that you have provided when creating the notification.
Click on the notification.The selected notification is added to the job and the
            notification is sent with the information provided in the message template.



