Setting up the service discoveryCloudera Docs
Setting up the service discovery
As an administrator, you need to make sure to set up a machine user that is used to
        register the services from the clusters to SSB. The machine user information must be
        provided to the user.

For the auto discovery, you need to create a machine user, and assign the correct
                role so the machine user has access to the environment. The machine user also must
                be synchronized to the environment.
importantMake sure that the network policies are correctly set up between
                the CDP Public Cloud environment and the cloud provider. For more information, see
                the cloud provider specific information under Related
                information.


Navigate to Management Console > User Management page.

Click Actions > Create Machine User.






Provide a name to the Machine User.

Click Create.
You are redirected to the User Profile page.






Click Set Workload Password.

Provide a Workload Password for the Machine User.

Click Set Workload Password.

Select Generate Access Key under Access
                        Keys tab.






Click Generate Access Key.
The Generate Access Key window pops up to indicate that
                    the access key generation was successful.






Take note of the Access Key ID and Private Key.

Click Download Credentials File.

noteMake sure to download the credentials file as you will not be able to
                        retrieve the private key after closing the window.


Click Close.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments and select your
                    environment.

Click Actions > Manage Access.

Search for the Machine User you have created.

Select EnvironmentAdmin role from the list of Resource
                    Roles.






Click Update Roles.
The Resource Role for the selected user or group will be updated.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you want to create a
                    cluster.

Click Actions > Synchronize Users to FreeIPA.

Click Synchronize Users.

After setting up the auto discovery feature, you need to
            access the Streaming SQL Console and import the data sources or catalogs from the
            clusters in your environment.

Parent topic: Using auto discovery of services