Managing member of a projectCloudera Docs
Managing member of a project
Created or imported projects can be shared with other users in Streaming SQL Console.
        You can invite members using their Streaming SQL Console username and set the access level
        to member or administrator.
When you create a project, you automatically become the
            owner of that project. You can invite SSB users to your project and give them access to
            the jobs and resources. You can also set another user to be the admin of your
                project.Table 1. Access levels in a project

Member
Creating and managing jobs and resources in a project,
                                synchronizing the project, inviting other Members. Running jobs,
                                stopping their own jobs.


Admin
In addition to Member privileges, Admins can stop jobs of other
                                users, manage users of the project, invite other Admins or
                                Members.


Owner
The priviliges of owners are identical to the Admins, but it
                                cannot be revoked and Owners cannot be removed from the
                                project.



Navigate to the Streaming SQL Console.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your
                cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster from the list of
                Data Hub clusters.


Select Streaming SQL Console from the list of
                services.
The Streaming SQL Console opens in a new window.



Open a project from the Projects page of Streaming SQL
            Console.


Select an already existing project from the list by clicking the
                  Open button or Switch button.


Create a new project by clicking the New Project
                button.


Import a project by clicking the Import button.


You are redirected to the Explorer view of the project.

Click Members from the Project Manager.

Click Invite User.
The Invite Member window appears.

Provide the SSB Username of the member you want to
                    invite.

Set the Access Level for the user.

Click Send Invitation.
The sent invitation is visible on the Projects page of
                    Streaming SQL Console under My Invitations or at the
                        Invitations tab on the Members
                    page.
You can delete any members of a project that you are an owner or an admin of
                    using  button next to their username.


Parent topic: Project structure and development