Using the service discovery on Streaming SQL ConsoleCloudera Docs
Using the service discovery on Streaming SQL Console
Using the Streaming SQL Console, you can import the Kafka, Schema Registry and Kudu
        services that already exist in your CDP Public Cloud environment. For the auto discovery,
        you need to provide the environment and machine user information that was provided by your
        administrator.

Navigate to the Streaming SQL Console.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your
                cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster from the list of
                Data Hub clusters.


Select Streaming SQL Console from the list of
                services.
The Streaming SQL Console opens in a new window.



Open a project from the Projects page of Streaming SQL
            Console.


Select an already existing project from the list by clicking the
                  Open button or Switch button.


Create a new project by clicking the New Project
                button.


Import a project by clicking the Import button.


You are redirected to the Explorer view of the project.

Click Data Hub Service Discovery from the
                        Project Manager.






Provide the needed information to the corresponding field.

importantThe environment and machine user information that is
                        needed for the service discovery is provided by the administrator.




Field
Description
Example



Username
Workload username of the Machine User.
csa-test


Password
Workload password of the Machine User.
Password123!


Environment Name
The name of the CDP Public Cloud environment you are
                                        using.
csa-test-env


Base URL
The URL snippet from the Management Console access
                                        URL.
https://console.us-west-1.cdp.cloudera.com


Access Key ID
Access Key ID of the Machine User.
00a0a0aa-00aa-00aa-00a0-0000a0a00a0


Access Key
Private Key of the Machine User.
Z66pxEXAMPLEKEY+Y3oIU070GEHS3kqi1EXAMPLEKEY=




Click Start Discovery.
The existing Kafka, Kudu and Schema Registry services in your environment
                    should appear under Kafka Sources and Catalogs.


Parent topic: Using auto discovery of services