Configuring Retention Time for Materialized ViewsCloudera Docs
Configuring Retention Time for Materialized Views
When creating Materialized Views, you can configure how the system should retain the
    data rows in the Materialized Views. You can either choose between retaining the data by time or
    the row count.
The Materialized Views configuration allows you to set one of the following configuration
      parameters for data retention:
Retention Time
Min Row Retention Count

You can specify the Retention Time and Min Row Retention Count when creating a Materialized
      View for a SQL job on the Compose page of the Streaming SQL Console.
Retention Time
Retention Time is specified in seconds, and it tells the system to retain data rows as old
        as the specified retention time. The rows that are outside of the retention time are removed
        from the Materialized View.
noteYou can only add a Retention Time value, if the Min Row Retention Count field is empty
        or set to 0.
The following example shows how to set a Retention Time of 300 seconds. This means that
        only those rows are included in the Materialized View that are within the 300 seconds of the
        job execution. The older rows are removed from the Materialized Views.



Minimum Row Retention Count
The Min Row Retention Count parameter indicated to the system to maintain a specific number
        of data rows in the Materialized View.
noteYou can only add a Min Row Retention Count value, if the Retention Time field is empty
        or set to 0.
The following example shows how to configure the system to retain the last 5000 data rows.
        This means that only the first 5000 data rows are included in the Materialized View, and the
        data rows from 5001 are removed from the Materialized View.




Retaining all data without limit
In order to retain all data rows, regardless of time, or number of rows in the Materialized
        View, both settings can be reset to zero (0). This indicates to the system that all data
        must be preserved without a time limit.
The following example shows how to configure the Retention parameters to keep all of the
        data regardless of time:





Parent topic: Introduction to Materialized Views