Managing widgets on the DashboardCloudera Docs
Managing widgets on the Dashboard
After a widget is created, you can customize the layout and control the frequency of the
  data update from the Dashboard page.



Layout
You can resize and reorganize the widgets on the Dashboard page based on
    your preferences. You can drag and drop the widgets to position them to different places on the
     Dashboard. To resize a widget, you need to click and drag to the preferred
    size the right bottom corner of the widget.


You can also maximize the widget window size to fill out the empty spaces of the Dashboard
    when only one widget is required for data visualization using the  > Maximize option. 

When the original size is required, the size can be reverted back by clicking  > Revert.


Not only the widgets, but you can also set the Dashboard page to a full
    screen mode using  button to present the widgets without the Project Manager and Search
    bar on the screen.

Data update
You can control the frequency of the data update for a widget by either refreshing it manually
    between the update cycles, or you can temporarily pause the automatic data update to have a
    snapshot of the streaming data in that point.
When sampling is in progress, you can use the 
    button to pause the auto update. When the auto update is paused, 
    icon appears next to the name of the widget to indicate that the sampling is stopped. You can
    resume the update of data by clicking on 
    button.When polling the samples are finished as the configured amount of messages are processed
    by the widget,  icon appears next to the name of the widget. You can restart the
    polling by clicking Restart Polling.


When a Materialized View endpoint is used as a data source, you can manually update the data
    on the visualization by clicking  button individually on the widget. You can also update
    every Materialized View widget using the refresh button on the
     Dashboard.
If the Update Interval of the widget is set to Default, the interval can be specified using
    the time drop-down and selecting an interval.

Storing configuration
Widgets and Dashboard settings are stored in the local storage of the browser, which enables
    you to always access the created widgets within a project.noteWidgets are not included when
     exporting a project.


Parent topic: Using widgets for data visualization