Running a simple SQL jobCloudera Docs
Running a simple SQL job
You can use this Getting Started use case to get familiar with the most simple form
        of running a SQL Stream job.

The Getting Started contains the basic steps of running a SQL Stream job. When
                executing the job, you do not need to select a sink as the results are displayed in
                the browser. SQL Stream Builder provisions a job on your cluster to run the SQL
                queries. You can select the Logs tab to review the status of
                the SQL job. As data is returned, it shows up in the Results
                tab.
noteBefore using SQL Stream Builder, review the
                    Streaming Analytics sections in the Release Notes as limitations may apply to
                the current version of Streaming Analytics.


Navigate to the Streaming SQL Console.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your
                cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster from the list of
                Data Hub clusters.


Select Streaming SQL Console from the list of
                services.
The Streaming SQL Console opens in a new window.



Open a project from the Projects page of Streaming SQL
            Console.


Select an already existing project from the list by clicking the
                  Open button or Switch button.


Create a new project by clicking the New Project
                button.


Import a project by clicking the Import button.


You are redirected to the Explorer view of the project.

Click  next to Jobs from the
                        Explorer.

Select New Job > Create.
The SQL Editor for the created job opens in a tab.

Select datagen from the
                    Templates.
The CREATE TABLE statement is imported to the SQL
                    window.

Add a SELECT query to the SQL window after the datagen
                    template.

SELECT * FROM <table_name>


noteWhen adding SQL statements to the SQL window, you do not need to add the
                        semicolon (;) at the end of the statement as SSB can run the command without
                        the semicolons.


Click Execute.
You can see the generated output on the Results
                    tab.

Click on the Stop button to stop the job.







