Using auto discovery of servicesCloudera Docs
Using auto discovery of services
Using the auto discovery of services in SQL Stream Builder (SSB), you can easily connect
  to catalogs and data sources that are running on a different Data Hub cluster in the same CDP
  Public Cloud environment.
noteThe Service Discovery feature is in Technical Preview and not ready for production
   deployment. Cloudera encourages you to explore these features in non-production environments and
   provide feedback on your experiences through the Cloudera Community Forums.
You can use the service discovery to automatically register Kafka, Schema Registry and Kudu
   with SSB within the same environment. This means when you have a Streams Messaging or Real-Time
   Data Mart cluster beside your Streaming Analytics cluster in your environment, you can use the
   auto discovery to automatically import the tables from both services. Using the auto discovery
   has the same result as manually adding the catalogs and providers: you can read from and write to
   Kafka, Schema Registry and Kudu. However, when you have numerous Kafka, Schema Registry and Kudu
   services in your environment, you do not have to add them one by one, instead you can use the
   service discovery to import them all at once.
For more information about manually adding data sources and catalogs, see the Registering Data providers in SSB section.
noteIn the Streaming Analytics 7.2.16 cluster definition, Apache Hive is not supported for the
   auto discovery feature of SSB.
The auto discovery feature does not check the changes you make in your environment. This means
   that you can register the newly added services from your environment to SSB using the same
   process. However, when you delete the cluster from the environment, the already registered
   catalog and data sources are not removed from SSB, you need to manually delete them from the
   Streaming SQL Console.

Setting up the service discoveryAs an administrator, you need to make sure to set up a machine user that is used to         register the services from the clusters to SSB. The machine user information must be         provided to the user.Using the service discovery on Streaming SQL ConsoleUsing the Streaming SQL Console, you can import the Kafka, Schema Registry and Kudu         services that already exist in your CDP Public Cloud environment. For the auto discovery,         you need to provide the environment and machine user information that was provided by your         administrator.Parent topic: Registering Data Sources in SSB