Creating and naming SQL jobsCloudera Docs
Creating and naming SQL jobs
You need to create or select an already existing SQL job on the Streaming SQL Console to
    be able to submit SQL queries.

You can manage your SQL jobs and resources using the Explorer view or
        the Home tab of your project. Every job and resource related action is
        the same for both views of Streaming SQL Console.


Navigate to the Streaming SQL Console.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your
                cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster from the list of
                Data Hub clusters.


Select Streaming SQL Console from the list of
                services.
The Streaming SQL Console opens in a new window.



Open a project from the Projects page of Streaming SQL
            Console.


Select an already existing project from the list by clicking the
                  Open button or Switch button.


Create a new project by clicking the New Project
                button.


Import a project by clicking the Import button.


You are redirected to the Explorer view of the project.

Click  > New Job on the Explorer view.

Provide a Name to your SQL job.

You have the following options to name your SQL job:
Use the predefined name in the Job Name field when opening
                the Streaming SQL Console
Use the Generate Job Name button to generate a new random
                name for your job
Manually provide the name of the job to the Job Name
                field



Click Create.
You are redirected to the SQL Editor where you can submit your SQL queries, create and
          manage Materialized Views and configure your SQL jobs.




After a new job is created, you can save the job and its settings using the Job Actions > Save button. When you make a change to the SQL query, job settings or create a
        Materialized View, you have the option to save the changes with the job. You can also revert
        your changes to the latest saved version of the job using the Revert
          Changes button. You can also delete the job from the SQL Editor using the
          Delete button.


Parent topic: SQL jobs