Top-down process for adding a new metadata sourceCloudera Docs
Top-down process for adding a new metadata source
You can create entity types in Atlas to represent data assets, operations,
    or other types of artifacts from sources other than those supported by
    default.
Atlas’ data model is designed to be flexible enough to represent a wide
      variety of data assets and the processes that generate them. You can
      design your own entities to collect metadata from sources beyond what
      comes predefined in Atlas. The high-level process for creating entities is
      as follows:




Think
                about how you want to model the core assets from your source.
                The predefined entity types inherit basic attributes from the
                DataSet and Process entity types. Using these general types as
                your starting point ensures that your entities can display
                lineage in the Atlas Dashboard and take advantage of other
                predefined rules and hierarchies built into the models. That
                said, new entity types are not limited to this data/process
                model.



Define the relationships you want to track among the
              data assets. To have your entities appear in lineage graphs in the
              Atlas Dashboard, include relationship attributes for
              “inputToProcesses” and “outputFromProcesses”.



List all
                the metadata you want to track for each entity type. If
                necessary or convenient, define enumerations or structures to
                describe metadata specifically for your entities.
                  



Use REST API or create an Atlas client to build the
              entity type definitions in Atlas. (build JSON)



Validate the model by manually filling in metadata in
              the types to validate that they behave the way you expect. You can
              do this using the Atlas Dashboard or REST API and then test that
              lineage, search, and Ranger tag-based-policies do what you
              expect.



Write a
                hook, bridge, or both to collect metadata automatically from
                your source.



