High-level transition processCloudera Docs
High-level transition process
Before transitioning from Navigator to Apache Atlas, review the transition paths. You must extract, transform, and import the content from Navigator to Apache Atlas. After the transition, services start producing metadata for Atlas and audits for Ranger. 
There are two main paths that describe a Navigator-to-Atlas transition scenario:
Upgrading Cloudera Manager to CDP 7 and upgrading all of your CDH clusters to CDP Runtime.
     In this case, you can stop Cloudera Navigator after migrating its
       content to Atlas.
Upgrading Cloudera Manager to CDP 7 but managing some or all of your existing CDH clusters as CDH 5.x or 6.x.
     In this case, CDP runs Cloudera Navigator to continue extracting
       metadata and audits from existing CDH clusters and runs Atlas and Ranger
       to support metadata and audit extraction from new or potential new CDP
       runtime clusters.

In both scenarios, you'll complete the upgrade of Cloudera Manager
       first. While Cloudera Manager is upgrading, Navigator pauses collection of 
       metadata and audits from cluster activities. After the upgrade is complete, 
       Navigator processes the queued metadata and audits.
In the timeline diagrams that follow, the blue color indicates steps that
     because you trigger them manually, you can control their timing.

The transition of Navigator content to Atlas occurs in the upgrade from CDH to CDP. The
      transition involves three phases:
Extracting metadata from Navigator. The Atlas installation includes a
          script (cnav.sh) that calls Navigator APIs to extract
          all technical and business metadata from Navigator. The process takes about 4 minutes per one million Navigator
        entities. The script compresses the result and writes it to the local file
          system on the host where the Atlas server is installed. Plan for about 100 MB
        for every one million Navigator entities; lower requirements for
        larger numbers of entities.
Transforming the Navigator metadata into a form that Atlas can consume.
          The Atlas installation includes a script
            (nav2atlas.sh) that converts the extracted content
          and again compresses it and writes it to the local file system. This process takes
        about 1.5 minutes per million Navigator entities. The script compresses the results and writes it to the local file
          system on the host where the Atlas server is installed. Plan for about 100
        to 150 MB for every one million Navigator entities; higher end of the
        range for larger numbers of entities.
Importing the transformed metadata into Atlas. After the CDP
          upgrade completes, Atlas starts up in "migration mode," where it waits
          to find the transformed data file and does not collect metadata from
          cluster services. When the transformation is complete, Atlas begins
          importing the content, creating equivalent Atlas entities for each
          Navigator entity. This process takes about 35 minutes for each one million Navigator
        entities, counting only the entities that are migrated into
        Atlas.


To make sure you don't miss metadata for cluster operations, give
             time after the CM upgrade and before the CDH upgrade for Navigator to process 
             all the metadata produced by CDH service operations. 
             See Navigator Extraction Timing for more information.
You can start extracting metadata from Navigator as soon as the CDP parcel is deployed
      on the cluster. After CDP is started, Navigator no longer collects metadata or audits from the
      services on that cluster; instead services produce metadata for Atlas and audits for Ranger.
        importantAfter the CDH upgrade, Atlas starts in migration mode and does not
        process metadata. When the transition completes, you must manually update the Atlas
        configuration in Cloudera Manager to have Atlas begin processing metadata.

The following topics describe the details of the events in these
      timelines:

Assumptions and prerequisitesBefore you transition your cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base or     migrating content from Navigator to Apache Atlas, ensure that you have collected all the     credentials and set expectations for the time required for completing the transition. The     prerequisites in this section help you to prepare in advance to transition.Installing Atlas in the Cloudera Manager upgrade wizardYou can use the wizard in Cloudera Manager to transition from CDH     to CDP Private Cloud Base, install Apache Atlas and     its dependencies, and to generate customized commands to initiate the     migration phases. After the wizard is complete, you can run the migration     commands from the host where Atlas is installed.Transitioning Navigator data using customized scriptsYou can run the customized scripts generated by the Cloudera Manager wizard to configure the Apache Atlas installation and start the Navigator-to-Atlas data migration process when you step into the CDP upgrade wizard. You can also run the migration scripts independently from the CDP upgrade.Parent topic: Transitioning Navigator content to Atlas