Transitioning Navigator auditsCloudera Docs
Transitioning Navigator audits
Existing Cloudera Navigator audits are not transitioned to the CDP cluster. To transition reports running against Navigator data to Apache Ranger and other resources you 
    must review the available options.
To manage Navigator audits in a CDP Runtime cluster, consider the
      following options:

Maintain legacy audits in Navigator
You can continue to run
            Navigator to access your existing audits (and/or metadata). If you
            choose to keep Navigator running, make sure that its users don't add
            content to the archived system rather than the new Atlas instance.
            Consider: 
Removing editing privileges from users. If Navigator is
                configured for LDAP or Active Directory authentication, you can
                modify users or groups to remove privileges for adding or
                editing metadata. For details, see Administering Navigator User
                  Roles.
Marking Navigator entities as stale. If you are
                managing more than one cluster in Navigator, you can mark
                entities from the upgraded cluster to indicate to users that the
                entities are no longer maintained in Navigator. One way to do
                this is to create a policy that assigns a tag to the entities
                from the upgraded cluster. For details, see Using Policies to Automate
                  Metadata Tagging.

Archive your Navigator audits
When Cloudera Manager upgrades to
            7.x, it maintains the database of Navigator audits. After the
            upgrade, you can access audits through Navigator as normal; new
            audits continue to be collected from CDH services.
          When you upgrade a CDH cluster to Cloudera Runtime, the Navigator audits
            persist. However, services no longer produce audits for Navigator.
            You can continue to run Navigator to be able to access the audits;
            at some point—perhaps after your need for immediate access to the
            audits expires—you'll want to archive the audits. For details, see
              Maintaining Navigator Audit
              Server.

 At that point, if Cloudera Manager is not managing another
            CDH cluster, you can shut down Navigator.
Transition audit reports and processes to Ranger
In CDP, Ranger performs auditing against the data access policies defined for each
          service. For example, if a Ranger policy allows only users from the Finance group to
          access a particular Hive database, Ranger audits will show when those users accessed the
          database successfully and when other users attempted to access the database and were
          denied. While the Ranger audits are a significant subset of the audits performed by
          Navigator, the format and content is different enough that Cloudera doesn't provide a
          transition path for Navigator audits into the same repository as Ranger audits. When
            redirecting reports or processes to Ranger, you'll need to: 
Identify the audited information: does an equivalent exist in Ranger? 
Identify the method of accessing the audit data and map it to Ranger: Did the
                reporting application use the Navigator API? Did it access archived data or the
                Navigator audit database? Ranger provides an API to access audits; audit data is
                written to HDFS (under /ranger/audit/<component name>). 30 days of audit records
                are indexed in Solr. The audit events are stored in JSON format. For details, see
                  Managing Auditing with Ranger.
                
              



Parent topic: Transitioning Navigator content to Atlas