Installing Atlas in the Cloudera Manager upgrade wizardCloudera Docs
Installing Atlas in the Cloudera Manager upgrade wizard
You can use the wizard in Cloudera Manager to transition from CDH
    to CDP Private Cloud Base, install Apache Atlas and
    its dependencies, and to generate customized commands to initiate the
    migration phases. After the wizard is complete, you can run the migration
    commands from the host where Atlas is installed.
This page describes the Cloudera Manager wizard steps that help you to
      setup Atlas and its service dependencies.

noteBefore you peform the upgrade process, note the following pertaining to
        Atlas operations.

When a cluster is upgraded from CDH 5 or  CDH
        6 to CDP 7, by default the
        atlas.metadata.namespace property is set to cm.
If a different namespace property needs to be set, for example: cluster1, the same
      needs to be set while running the nav2atlas script as "-clusterName"
      parameter and also in the atlas-application properties in the upgrade
      wizard.
Post-upgrade, note that the different value "cluster1" is not
      automatically updated in Hooks for services like Hive,
        HBase, Impala, Spark,
      and Kafka. You must make sure that before you upgrade your cluster and
      once the services are installed, you must set the value "cluster1" for
      all the available services. And later complete the upgrade process.
As an example process, follow these steps if namespace other than default
        "cm" needs to be set:

Provide the namespace ("cluster1") in the transformation step
        of Nav2Atlas script.
Add atlas.metadata.namespace =cluster1 in
          atlas-application properties in the following window of the upgrade
        wizard for Atlas.
Open another tab of the Cloudera Manager while upgrade process is in progress
        and add atlas.metadata.namespace =cluster1 in Safety Valve of
          atlas-application.properties for all the Hook services (Hive, HiveServer2 , Spark
        , HBase, Impala, and Kafka).
Perform all the other steps in the upgrade wizard and complete the upgrade.
Remove Atlas from the migration mode.

To return to the main wizard documentation, go to Upgrading a CDH 5 Cluster.
Follow instructions in the upgrade wizard "Install Services"
      section
See Step 10: Run the Upgrade Cluster Wizard.

Enable Atlas install. If the CDH cluster being upgraded was
            running Navigator, the upgrade wizard shows a note recommending that
            you enable Atlas in the new cluster. Check the Install Atlas
            option.



Install Atlas dependencies. The wizard steps through the
            installation for Atlas' dependencies, assuming these services
            haven't already been included in the installation: 

ZooKeeper. Assign one or more hosts for the ZooKeeper role.
HDFS. Already included in the installation.
Kafka. Select the optional dependency of HDFS. Atlas requires
              configuring the Broker service only, not MirrorMaker, Connect, or
              Gateway.
HBase. Atlas requires configuring HBase Master and RegionServers
              only, not REST or Thrift Server. Assign a Master role on at least
              one host. Assign RegionServers to all hosts.
Solr. Assign a host for the Solr Server role. Set the Java Heap
              Size of Solr Server in Bytes property to 12 GB (to support the
              migration operation).

For recommendations on where in the cluster to install the service
            roles, see Runtime Cluster Hosts and Role
              Assignments.
Click
            Add Atlas Service. The wizard steps through
          choosing a host and setting migration details.
Set the host for the Atlas server roles and click
                Continue. tipRemember this
                host as you'll need to SSH to it later to trigger the content
                migration from Navigator.
The Atlas Migrate Navigator Data screen
              displays. This screen contains migration commands that are
                customized to your environment. When you fill in the output file
                paths, the command text changes to incorporate your settings.
                  
Set migration data-staging locations. The migration
                      process creates two data files on the local file system on
                      the host where Atlas is installed. Make sure there is
                      enough disk space to hold these files; see Estimating the time and resources needed for transition.
Copy the
                    extraction command text to an editor.


Copy the
                    transformation command text to an editor.


Confirm the
                    output file location. This is the location where Atlas will
                    look for the content to import. Make sure it matches the
                    location you plan to use for the output of the
                    transformation command.
Click Continue.

The Atlas Enable Migration Mode screen
              displays. Review the Atlas Safety Valve content and click
                Continue. After the migration is
                complete, you will manually remove these settings to start Atlas
                in normal operation.
The Atlas Review Changes screen displays.
              Review the configurations and make any necessary changes.You must
              provide a value for the following: 
Admin Password – choose a password
                  for the preconfigured admin user. 
Atlas Max Heapsize – set the max
                  heapsize to the default value by clicking the curved blue
                  arrow. If you plan to migrate content from Cloudera Navigator
                  to Atlas, consider setting the heapsize to 16 GB.





Click Continue.
To complete the Navigator-to-Atlas migration outside of the
            CDP Runtime upgrade, see Transitioning Navigator data using customized scripts.


Continue with the upgrade wizard
The Cloudera Manager upgrade wizard continues with "Other Tasks" and
        "Inspector Checks" sections. The wizard steps for installing Atlas are
        complete at this point and you can continue to complete the CDP Runtime
        upgrade.


Related informationConfigure Atlas file-based authenticationParent topic: High-level transition process