Upgrading CDH 5 to CDP Private Cloud BaseCloudera Docs
Upgrading CDH 5 to CDP Private Cloud Base
High-level upgrade procedures for upgrades from CDH 5 to CDP Private Cloud Base.

Upgrading CDP Private Cloud Base consists of two
      major steps, upgrading Cloudera Manager and upgrading the cluster. You are
      not required to upgrade Cloudera Manager and the cluster at the same time,
      but the versions of Cloudera Manager and the cluster must be compatible.
      The major+minor version of Cloudera Manager must be equal to or higher
      than the major+minor version of CDH or Cloudera Runtime. 
Workflow
 An upgrade from CDH 5 to CDP Private Cloud Base has the following
        high-level workflow:
Prepare to upgrade:
Review the Supported Upgrade Paths
                for your upgrade.
Review the Requirements and Supported
                  Versions for your upgrade
Review the Release Notes for the
                version of CDP Private Cloud Base you are
                upgrading to.
Review the CDP Upgrade/Migrate
                  Troubleshooting Articles. These Cloudera Knowledge Base
                articles describe common issues encountered by Cloudera
                customers during upgrades and migrations. (Cloudera login
                required.) 
Gather information on your deployment. See Step 1: Getting Started Upgrading Cloudera Manager 5 and Step 1: Getting Started Upgrading a Cluster. 
Plan how and when to begin your upgrade.

If necessary, Upgrade the
            JDK.
If necessary, Upgrade the Operating
            System.
Perform any needed pre-upgrade transition steps for the components
            deployed in your clusters. See CDP Private Cloud Base Pre-upgrade transition steps
Upgrade Cloudera Manager to version 7.1.1 or higher. After
            upgrading to Cloudera Manager 7.1.1 or higher, Cloudera Manager can
            manage upgrading your cluster to a higher version. See Upgrading Cloudera Manager 5.
Use Cloudera Manager to Upgrade CDH to Cloudera Runtime 7, or from
            Cloudera Runtime to a higher version of Cloudera Runtime. See Upgrading a CDH 5 Cluster.
Perform any needed post-upgrade transition steps for the
            components deployed in your clusters. See CDH 5 to CDP Private Cloud Base post-upgrade transition steps.


Component Changes in CDP Private Cloud Base 7
YARN Fair Scheduler is being removed.
The YARN Fair Scheduler is being replaced with the YARN
        Capacity Scheduler. A transition tool will be provided to convert the
        Fair Scheduler configurations to Capacity Scheduler. 
Hive-on-Spark and Hive-on-MapReduce have been removed.
        Similar functionality is available with Hive-on-Tez.
Pig, Flume, Sentry, and Navigator have been removed.


Pig can be replaced with Hive or Spark.


Flume has been replaced with Cloudera Flow Management
            (CFM). CFM is a no-code data ingestion and management solution
            powered by Apache NiFi. Contact your Cloudera account team for more
            information about moving from Flume to CFM. 


Sentry has been replaced with Ranger. A Sentry-to-Ranger policy
            transition tool is available for CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1 and
            transitions will be supported when Replication Manager is used to
            transition Hive tables from CDH to CDP.


Navigator has been replaced with Atlas. Navigator lineage
            data is transferred to Atlas as part of the CDH to CDP Private Cloud
            Base upgrade process. Navigator audit data is not transferred to
            Atlas. 




