Preparing tables for migrationCloudera Docs
Preparing tables for migration
You download the Hive Upgrade Check tool and use it to identify problems in
        unmigrated tables. These problems can cause upgrade failure. It saves time to fix the
        problems and avoid failure. The tool provides help for fixing those problems before
        migrating the tables to CDP. 

You use the Hive Upgrade Check community tool to help you identify tables that have
                problems affecting migration. You resolve problems revealed by the Hive Upgrade
                Check tool to clean up the Hive Metastore before migration. If you do not want to
                use the Hive Upgrade Check tool, you need to perform the tasks described in the
                following subtopics to migrate Hive data to CDP:
Check SERDE Definitions and Availability
Handle Missing Table or Partition Locations
Manage Table Location Mapping
Make Tables SparkSQL Compatible



Obtain the Hive Upgrade Check tool.
Download the Hive SRE Upgrade Check
                        tool from the Cloudera labs github location.

 Follow instructions in the github readme to run the tool.
The Hive Upgrade Check (v.2.3.5.6+) will create a yaml file
                    (hsmm_<name>.yaml) identifying databases and tables that require attention. 

Follow instructions in prompts from the Hive Upgrade Check tool to resolve problems with the tables.
 At a minimum, you must run the following processes described in the github
                        readme:
process ID 1 Table / Partition Location Scan - Missing Directories
process id 3 Hive 3 Upgrade Checks - Managed Non-ACID to ACID Table
                            Migrations 



Check SERDE Definitions and AvailabilityEnsure correct Serde definitions and a reference to a SERDE exists to ensure a         successful upgrade.Handle Missing Table or Partition LocationsYou need to identify missing table or partition locations, or both, to prevent         upgrade failure. If the table and partition locations do not exist in the file system, you         must either create a replacement partition directory (recommended) or drop the table and         partition. Managed Table Location MappingA managed table location must map to one managed table only. If multiple managed         tables point to the same location, upgrade problems occur. Make Tables SparkSQL CompatibleNon-Acid, managed tables in ORC or in a Hive Native (but non-ORC) format that are         owned by the POSIX user hive will not be SparkSQL-compatible after the         upgrade unless you perform manual conversions. Parent topic: Overview of the expedited Hive upgradeParent topic: Apache Hive Expedited Migration Tasks