Overview of the expedited Hive upgradeCloudera Docs
Overview of the expedited Hive upgrade
You perform tasks before and after the Hive migration to hasten the upgrade. The
  sequence of steps involved in expediting the Hive upgrade includes identifying problems in tables
  and databases before upgrading, configuring the Hive Strict Managed Migration (HSMM) to prevent
  migration, and completing the upgrade. After the upgrade to CDP, you migrate the tables and
  databases.

Prepare tables for migration, identifying potential migration problems using the Hive Upgrade
    Check tool.
Decide to expedite the upgrade by not migrating your databases and tables during the
    upgrade.
Upgrade Cloudera Manager, and then start to upgrade your cluster.
In the upgrade wizard, after adding the Hive-on-Tez service, temporarily leave the upgrade wizard.
Configure HSMM to prevent migration of your databases and tables.
Return to the upgrade wizard and continue upgrading your cluster. None of your databases
     or tables are migrated to CDP.

If you did not migrate your Hive data, do so after the upgrade to CDP as follows:

Prepare tables for migration, identifying and fixing potential migration problems using the
    Hive Upgrade Check tool.
Create a list of databases and tables to migrate.
Migrate tables and databases to CDP.You cannot use unmigrated tables in CDP.


Preparing tables for migrationYou download the Hive Upgrade Check tool and use it to identify problems in         unmigrated tables. These problems can cause upgrade failure. It saves time to fix the         problems and avoid failure. The tool provides help for fixing those problems before         migrating the tables to CDP. Configuring HSMM to prevent migrationYou need to know how to configure the Hive Strict Managed Migration (HSMM) to prevent         migrating your tables and databases as you run the upgrade process in Cloudera Manager. You         briefly leave the upgrade process, do the configuration, and than proceed with the         upgrade.Parent topic: Expediting the Hive upgrade