Importing Sentry privileges into Ranger policiesCloudera Docs
Importing Sentry privileges into Ranger policies
How to complete the process of translating Sentry privileges into Ranger
        policies.

No one-to-one mapping between Sentry privileges and Ranger service policies exists.
                Upgrading your platform involves translating Sentry privileges to their equivalents
                within Ranger service policies. After upgrading Cloudera Manager and your cluster,
                this post-upgrade step completes the translation process.


In Ranger > Actions, click Import Sentry Policies.

Read the following points that describe how Sentry privileges appear in Ranger
                    after the migration: 


Sentry permissions that are granted to roles are granted to groups in
                            Ranger. 
Sentry permissions that are granted to a parent object are granted to the
                            child object as well. The migration process preserves the permissions
                            that are applied to child objects. For example, a permission that is
                            applied at the database level  also applies to the tables within that
                            database. 
Sentry OWNER privileges are translated to the Ranger OWNER privilege. 
Sentry OWNER WITH GRANT OPTION privileges are translated to Ranger OWNER with Delegated Admin checked. 
Sentry does not differentiate between tables and views. When view permissions are migrated, they are treated as table names. 
Sentry privileges on URIs  use the object store location as the base
                            location. 
If your cluster contains the Kafka service and the Kafka sentry
                            policy had "action": "ALL" permission, the migrated Ranger policy for
                            "cluster" resource will be missing the "alter" permission. This is
                            only applicable for "cluster" resource. You  need to add the policy
                            manually after the upgrade. This missing permission does not have any
                            functional impact. Adding the "alter" permission post upgrade is
                            needed only for completeness because the 'configure' permission  allow
                            alter operations.
Sentry "alter" permission on cluster and topic is translated to
                            "configure" in Ranger.

The following table shows how actions in Sentry translate to corresponding
                        actions in Ranger:

Table 1. Sentry Actions to Ranger Actions


 Sentry Action 


  Ranger Action  





SELECT


SELECT




INSERT


UPDATE




CREATE


CREATE




REFRESH


REFRESH




ALL


ALL




SELECT with Grant


SELECT




INSERT with Grant


UPDATE




CREATE with Grant


CREATE




ALL with Grant


ALL with Delegated Admin Checked



ALTER
CONFIGURE






Parent topic: CDH 5 to CDP Private Cloud Base post-upgrade transition steps