Transitioning Cloudera Search configuration before upgrading to Cloudera RuntimeCloudera Docs
Transitioning Cloudera Search configuration before upgrading to Cloudera Runtime
If your CDH cluster includes Cloudera Search, there are steps you
    need to take before transitioning your cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base.
    Read these instructions even if the Cloudera Search instance installed in
    your cluster is not in use to avoid compromising your entire upgrade
    procedure. 


As Cloudera Search is included in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher, upgrading
      from CDH 5 to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher upgrades
      Cloudera Search as well. If you are upgrading to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher from CDH 5,
      and you are using Cloudera Search, you must complete certain preparatory tasks.
Cloudera Search that is shipped with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher uses Apache
      Solr 8, which has certain incompatibilities with previous Solr versions. To facilitate the
      upgrade, Cloudera provides a Solr configuration transition script,
        solr-upgrade.sh. This script is included with Cloudera Manager. You must
      upgrade to Cloudera Manager 7.1 or higher before you can start the Cloudera Search
      transition.
Use the following procedures to migrate your Cloudera Search
      configuration before upgrading a cluster to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher. The
      migration script cannot upgrade the Lucene index files. After upgrading, you must
      reindex your
      collections. For more information, see Reindexing in Solr in the Apache Solr wiki.

Warnings and prerequisitesPreparing Cloudera Search in your CDH cluster for an upgrade is a complex task. Create HDFS backup directoryCreate a backup directory on HDFS and make it writable for the Solr superuser. This         is the diretory that you need to set in Cloudera Manager as Upgrade Backup             Directory before you start the upgrade process.Set upgrade configuration properties in Cloudera ManagerAs part of the upgrade to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1     or higher,         Cloudera Manager backs up and validates your migrated Solr configuration to ensure that it         is compatible with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1     or higher. Ensure         that         you designate one of your Solr server hosts to perform these actions, and specify HDFS and         local directories for the backup and migrated configuration files.Download the configurationBefore you can transition Solr configuration metadata, you need to download the         current Solr configuration from ZooKeeper.Back up Solr configuration metadata using Cloudera ManagerBefore upgrading to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1     or higher, back         up your Solr collections . This enables you to roll back to the pre-upgrade state if any         problems occur during the upgrade process.Transition Solr configurationDepending on the Cloudera Manager version, select the transition process that is   applicable to your case.Validate transitioned Solr configurationThe solr-upgrade.sh script includes a             validate-metadata command that you can run against the migrated Solr         configuration and metadata to make sure that they can be used to reinitialize the Solr         service after the CDH cluster         upgrade.         Test transitioned Solr configuration on a Cloudera Runtime clusterCopy the upgraded Solr configuration to a test or development CDP cluster to test it         for incompatibilities not detected by the upgrade script before you initiate the upgrade on         your production environment.Copy the transitioned configuration to the upgrade metadata directoryAfter you have successfully migrated the Solr configuration, and verified that the         updated configuration works in Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1     or higher, you         have to copy it to the Upgrade Metadata Directory and change its         ownership to the Solr service superuser. About Solr configuration transformation scriptParent topic: CDP Private Cloud Base Pre-upgrade transition steps