Set upgrade configuration properties in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Set upgrade configuration properties in Cloudera Manager
As part of the upgrade to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher,
        Cloudera Manager backs up and validates your migrated Solr configuration to ensure that it
        is compatible with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher. Ensure
        that
        you designate one of your Solr server hosts to perform these actions, and specify HDFS and
        local directories for the backup and migrated configuration files.

noteIf you have multiple Solr services in the same CDH cluster, you must configure
                these properties for each Solr service.


In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to Solr service > Configuration.

In the Search field, type upgrade to
                    filter the configuration parameters.

For the Solr Server for Upgrade property, select one of
                    your Solr Server hosts. When you run the migration
                    script, make sure to run it on this host.

For the Upgrade Backup Directory property, specify a
                    directory in HDFS. This directory must exist and be writable by the Solr service
                    superuser (solr by default). Examples in these procedures use
                        /cr7-solr-upgrade/backup for this HDFS directory.

For the Upgrade Metadata Directory property, specify a
                    directory on the local filesystem of the host you selected as the
                        Solr Server for Upgrade. When you run the migration
                    script, make sure that you copy the migrated configuration to this directory.
                    This directory must also be writable by the Solr service superuser. Examples in
                    these procedures use /cr7-solr-metadata/migrated-config for
                    this local directory.

Enter a Reason for change and then click Save
                        Changes to commit the changes.


Parent topic: Transitioning Cloudera Search configuration before upgrading to Cloudera Runtime