About Solr configuration transformation scriptCloudera Docs
About Solr configuration transformation
  script

warningAlthough the configuration
        transformation script addresses known incompatibilities, there might be incompatible
        configurations that are not detected by the script. Do not upgrade your production Cloudera
        Search services to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher until you have
        tested the migrated configuration with Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher on a testing or development
        cluster.
Cloudera provides a Solr configuration transformation script to simplify the upgrade process by
   providing upgrade instructions tailored to your configuration. These instructions can help you to
   answer the following questions:

Does my Solr configuration use  configurations that are incompatible with the new version? If
    so, which ones?
For each incompatibility, what do I need to do to address it? Where can I get more
    information about this incompatibility, and why it was introduced?
Are there any changes in Lucene or Solr that require me to do a full re-index, or is it
    sufficient to upgrade the index? For all upgrades to Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1
    or higher from CDH 5,
    re-indexing is required.

In general, incompatibilities are categorized as follows:

ERROR: The removal of a Lucene or Solr configuration element (such as
    a field type) is marked as ERROR in the validation output. These types of
    incompatibilities typically result in failure to start the Solr service or load the core. To
    address this, you must manually fix the Solr configuration.
WARNING: The deprecation of a configuration element in the new Solr
    version is marked as WARNING in the validation output. In general, these types
    of incompatibilities do not prevent starting the Solr service or loading cores, but may prevent
    applications from using new Lucene or Solr features (or bug fixes). You can choose to make
    changes to Solr configuration using application specific knowledge to fix such
    incompatibility.
INFO: Incompatibilities that can be fixed automatically by rewriting
    the Solr configuration are marked INFO in the validation output. This can
    include incompatibilities in the underlying Lucene implementation (for example, LUCENE-6058) that would require rebuilding the index instead of upgrading it.
    Typically, these incompatibilities do not result in failure to start the Solr service or load
    cores, but may affect query result accuracy or consistency of the underlying indexed data.


Parent topic: Transitioning Cloudera Search configuration before upgrading to Cloudera Runtime