Upgrading the Operating SystemCloudera Docs
Upgrading the Operating System




This topic describes the additional steps needed to upgrade the operating
      system of a host managed by Cloudera Manager to a higher version,
      including major and minor releases.
Upgrading the operating system to a higher version but within the same
      major release is called a minor release upgrade. For example,
      upgrading from Redhat 6.8 to 6.9. This is a relatively simple procedure
      that involves properly shutting down all the components, performing the
      operating system upgrade, and then restarting everything in reverse
      order.
Upgrading the operating system to a different major release is called a
        major release upgrade. For example, upgrading from Redhat 6.8 to
      7.4. This is a much more complex procedure to do it in-place, and some
      operating systems do not support these upgrades. Therefore, the procedures
      for upgrading specific operating systems are not covered in this
      topic.
This topic primarily describes all the additional steps such as backing
      up essential files and removing and reinstalling all the necessary
      Cloudera Enterprise packages and parcels.
noteYou must determine whether to upgrade the operating system or Cloudera
      Manager first:For example, consider the following upgrade from Cloudera
        Manager 5.13.3 to Cloudera Manager 7.1.4 and an operating system upgrade
        from RHEL 7.6 to RHEL 7.8
Cloudera Manager 5.13.3 supports only RHEL 7.6
Cloudera Manager 7.1.4 supports RHEL 7.6 and RHEL 7.8
 In this case you must upgrade Cloudera Manager first, otherwise
        Cloudera Manager version 5.13.3 would be deployed on an unsupported
        operating system (RHEL 7.6) and may fail. 


Step 1: Getting Started with Operating System UpgradesStep 2: Backing Up Host Files Before Upgrading the Operating SystemStep 3: Before You Upgrade the Operating SystemStep 4: After You Upgrade the Operating System