Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler transitionCloudera Docs
Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler transition
You must transition from Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler when upgrading your
  cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base. The transition process involves
  automatically converting certain Fair Scheduler configuration to Capacity Scheduler configuration
  prior to the upgrade and manual fine tuning after the upgrade.
In CDP, Capacity Scheduler is the default and supported scheduler. You have to transition from
      Fair Scheduler to Capacity Scheduler when upgrading from CDH to CDP Private Cloud Base.
The scheduler transition process includes migrating the YARN settings from Fair Scheduler to
   Capacity Scheduler:

Preparing for cluster upgrade: As using the Upgrade Cluster Wizard in Cloudera
          Manager you have to add the necessary services before you can start upgrading your
          cluster. When you add the YARN QueueManager Service you have to copy your scheduler
          settings. That is when you can use the fs2cs conversion utility to
          automatically convert Fair Scheduler into Capacity Scheduler as a part of the Upgrade
          Wizard in Cloudera Manager. 
Upgrade the cluster to CDP Private Cloud Base.
Post-upgrade: Manually configure and fine-tune the scheduler after the upgrade is
          completed.
importantThe features of Capacity Scheduler are not the same as the features
    of Fair Scheduler. Hence, the fs2cs conversion utility cannot convert every Fair
    Scheduler configuration into a Capacity Scheduler configuration. After the automatic conversion
    and once the upgrade is completed, you must manually tune the scheduler configurations to ensure
    that the resulting scheduling configuration fits your organization’s internal goals and
    SLAs.
For more information, click on the step that interests you:



Plan your scheduler transitionBefore starting the scheduler transition, you must learn about what Fair Scheduler   configuration can be converted into a Capacity Scheduler configuration prior to the upgrade, what   configuration requires manual configuration and fine-tuning. Use the fs2cs conversion utilityYou can use the fs2cs conversion utility to automatically convert certain Fair Scheduler     configuration to Capacity Scheduler configuration as part of the Upgrade Cluster Wizard in     Cloudera Manager.Manual configuration of scheduler propertiesAfter upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base, you must manually         add the content of the yarn-site.xml output file, and then fine-tune the         scheduler configurations using the YARN Queue Manager UI to ensure that the resulting         configurations suit your requirements. You can use Cloudera Manager Advanced configuration         snippet (Safety Valve) to configure a property that is missing from the YARN Queue Manager         UI.Parent topic: Step 10: Run the Upgrade Cluster Wizard