Configure Atlas PAM authenticationCloudera Docs
Configure Atlas PAM authentication
By default in Data Center installations, Atlas uses PAM authentication, which means
    valid Atlas users correspond to the users configured for the operating system on the host where
    Atlas runs. Cloud installations do not use PAM authentication.
 These steps describe setting properties to enable PAM authentication. To disable PAM,
      you can remove the properties or set the PAM authentication method property to false. If you
      leave the PAM authentication method to true and set another authentication method to true,
      Atlas uses both methods to authenticate users. noteIn CDP Cloud, authentication is
        configured through Free IPA, which uses Kerberos to secure user identities in the
        environment. There is no need to manually configure authentication settings for Atlas. For
        more information, see "Managing user access and authorization" in the CDP Cloud Management
        Console documentation.


Minimum Required Role in Cloudera Manager: Full Administrator.


In Cloudera Manager, select the Atlas service, then open the
            Configuration tab.

To display the appropriate property, type "safety" in the Search box.

Find the Atlas Server Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
            conf/atlas-application.properties.

In the safety valve, set the following properties:
atlas.authentication.method.pam=true
atlas.authentication.method.pam.service=login service
          where login service indicates the desired PAM login service. For
          example, set atlas.authentication.method.pam.service=login to use
            /etc/pam.d/login.

Click Save Changes.

Restart the Atlas service.

Once the PAM authentication is enabled for Atlas on a Private Cloud
              Base cluster, to access Atlas, note the following:

If Atlas was configured using LDAP or Active
                Directory, the same user role which was set-up can be authenticated and
              used for accessing Atlas.


For an Operating System user, you can add the user using useradd or
                adduser commands and later access Atlas.


noteIf Ranger is enabled, you must have appropriate permissions for the user (both the
              scenarios above) in Ranger policies. Alternatively, if Ranger is not enabled, the user
              must manually update the JSON file -
                atlas-simple-authz-policy.json




Related informationCDP Cloud Management Console: Managing user access and authorizationParent topic: Configuring Atlas Authentication