Restricting classifications based on user permissionCloudera Docs
Restricting classifications based on user permission
The Atlas authorisation model has been updated with a new permission,
            type-read, to enable restricting visibility of types to specific users, groups,
        and roles.
Altas authorization model supports permissions to create, update, delete types, which
            enables setting up policies to restrict who can perform create, update, delete on types
            (like classifications, business metadata). Note that all authenticated users were
            allowed to perform read operation on types.
In the updated model, users with type-create or type-update or
                type-delete permission will implicitly be granted type-read
            permission. Also, to be compliant with earlier user experience, a default policy is
            created to allow type-read operation to all authenticated users. Security
            administrators can update the default policy and add new policies to restrict type-read
            operation to specific users.
Prior to this update, new permission, the type-read access was not
            available and read access for typedefs was public. Now the objective for Read
                Type permission is to have the ability to set access control permission on
            visibility of classifications and other typedefs (entitydef, enumdef, structdef, and
            business_metadatadef) in Atlas.
Previously, policy permission types only included Create Type, Update Type,
            and Delete Type. 




noteWith the introduction of “Read Type” permission, when you select any one of the
                types - Create Type or Update Type or
                    Delete Type, the Read Type
                permission is implicitly enabled.




noteUpgrade scenario: The new Read Type
            permission is available as part of the upgrade scenario.For example: If you are
                upgrading from CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.x to
                    7.1.4, you must be able to make use of the new read type
                permission.

Parent topic: Configuring Atlas Authorization