Configuring Atlas Authorization using RangerCloudera Docs
Configuring Atlas Authorization using Ranger
Use the Ranger Admin UI to add or update policies to control Atlas
      access.

You can use Ranger policies to control user-access to Atlas
        metadata and to actions that users can perform in Atlas. The following
        policies are defined by default:

admin: the initial Atlas administrator user has
          full access to all Atlas actions, including full access to entity
          metadata, classifications, business metadata attributes, labels and
          relationship creation, the ability to create new entity, enumeration,
          structure, and relationship types, the ability to import, export, and
          purge metadata from Atlas, and the ability to save searches. 
dpprofiler: the Data Plane service user has the
          same extensive privileges as the admin user. These privileges allow
          integration between the Data Catalog (Data Steward Studio) and
          Atlas.
beacon: the Replication Manager service user has
          the same extensive privileges as the admin user. These privileges
          allow Atlas to participate in cluster-level disaster recovery
          operations.
rangertagsync: the TagSync service user has read
          access to entity metadata, specifically to entity classifications,
          business metadata, and labels to be used in Ranger tag-based
          policies.
rangerlookup: the Ranger lookup service user has
          read access to entity metadata, specifically to entity
          classifications, business metadata, and labels to be used in enforcing
          Ranger policies.
public: all users are granted access to read
          Atlas entity metadata, classifications, labels, and relationships
          (such as lineage). 
{USER}: any user who successfully logs in to
            Atlas can save searches so they are available in subsequent Atlas
            sessions.



To change Ranger policies for Atlas, your user needs privileges
        in Ranger to change Resource Based Policies.

Open the Ranger service that is running in the same cluster
          as Atlas.
One way to do this is to open the Ranger Admin Web UI from
          Cloudera Manager.
                 


Open Access Manager > Resource Based Policies and
          select Atlas policies (cm_atlas).


On the List of Policies page, click Add New
            Policy.Use the Create Policy page to specify the Atlas authorization
          policy.

Ranger fields support ? and *
            wildcards for single and multiple character replacement. To apply
            the policy to all types of a given entry, use
            *.
These selections can be set to "include" the selected resources or
            "exclude" the selected resources. An include policy applies only to
            the named types. An exclude policy for the same type would apply to
            all metadata types other than named types.




Ranger Authorization with classifications

Currently in Atlas we have the following authorization options for using
            classification:

Authorization on types: Where user can
                create a new classification def (not the association)For example: Only
                admin_user is allowed to create tags -
                PII, PHI..etc.
Authorization on Entity: For entities
                with typeName hive_table with qualifiedName
                  (abc@cl1) and having classification (already
                associated) can add, update, and remove classifications.For example, if any Hive
              table with qualifiedName 'emp@cl1 and having the tag
                PII, the admin_user can add the
                SENSITIVE tag.





Authorization Enhancement

The enhancement is provided to authorize as to who can add, remove, and
            update classification for an entity. Even if the entities on which classification have
            to be applied, that do not have classifications already tagged to it, provided the
            entity-type, Entity-ID and classification on it matches the specified policy.
For example, any users belonging to the user group -
              finance_group can add classification -
              FINANCE_PII to any entities (these entities may or may not have
            any classifications associated) if the policy has provided access to the user or
            user-group.
To achieve this, a new field named classification is
            introduced in the Ranger UI in which tags to be added can be
            specified.
Entity Classification denotes the classifications
            already associated with the entity. 
For example:
Entity Classification - Finance_*
Classification: Finance_PII
Access: Group: finance_group, Permission:
              Add/Update/Delete Classifications.



Policy Type
Access. There are no other policy types available for
                    an Atlas service.


Policy Name
255 character name that appears in the list of
                    policies. Roles, users, and groups also show up in the list,
                    so it helps if your name includes the operations or metadata
                    that the policy controls.


Policy Label
Metadata you can include in the policy definition to
                    help organize the policies for a given service. The same
                    label can be added to any number of policies for the
                    service. There is no limit to the number of characters in a
                    label, but only 28 characters display in the policy
                    list.


type-category menu
The metadata or operation type ("resources" in Ranger
                    terms) that the policy applies to, including:
type-category
entity-type
atlas-service
relationship-type



type-category option
Choose this option to authorize actions generally
                    against Atlas resource types, including business metadata,
                    classifications, enumerations, entities, relationships,
                      structures.With type-category
                      selected, options include:



Type Name
Refine the authorization to specific types within the
                    named type category. For example, to give users
                      authorization to create Atlas Business Metadata, choose
                        type-category and the category
                        Business Metadata; then set the Type
                      Name to *. For example, to authorize users to add
                    values to an existing enum, such as
                      AtlasGlossaryTermRelationshipStatus, add
                    this enum to the Type Name and include the permission for
                    "Update Type" in the Allow Condition. To allow users to
                    update any types within the type category, use
                      *.To determine the supported values,
                      use the Atlas UI or API to show the defined
                    types.


entity-type option
Authorizes actions against specific entity types,
                    individual entities, entities identified by associated
                    classifications, or entities identified by associated
                    metadata. For example, to authorize users to add
                      classifications or metadata to any Hive table entities,
                      set the entity-type to
                        hive_table and set additional options
                      to *. With
                      entity-type selected, options
                    include:



Entity Classification
Refines the list of entities in
                      entity-type to those associated
                    with a specified classification. For example, to restrict
                    authorization to Hive tables that were marked with some
                    classification that indicates their readiness for use, set
                      entity-type to
                      hive_table and include the identifying
                    classification name (e.g., Available) in
                    Entity Classification.



Entity ID
Refines the list of entities in
                      entity-type to those associated
                    with a specified ID. When the detail page for an entity is
                    open in the Atlas UI, the last element of the browser URL
                    indicates the entity ID. 



classification

Provides the option to authorize as to who can add, remove, and
                      update classification for an entity, even if the entities on which
                      classification have to be applied, which do not have classifications already
                      tagged to it, provided the entity-type,
                        Entity-ID and classification
                      on it matches the specified policy.




Metadata types selection
Refines the list of entities in
                      entity-type to those associated
                    with specific user-defined metadata, including:
entity-label
entity-business-metadata
classification
none
Set label names in the type
                        entity-label to limit the
                      authorization policy to entities marked with any of those
                      labels. Use * to indicate any
                      label.Set business metadata collection names in the
                      type entity-business-metadata to
                      limit the authorization policy to entities marked with
                      metadata attributes from that business metadata
                      collection. Use * to indicate any
                      business metadata collections.


atlas-service option
Authorizes the import and export Atlas entities and
                    purge deleted entities through the API. This privilege
                    overrides specific privileges for entity-types. Typically
                    the users with this privilege are service users creating
                    entities in Atlas.


relationship-type option
Authorizes the creation and update of Atlas
                    relationships. You can identify specific relationship types
                    or use * to indicate any relationship type.
                    Typically the users with this privilege are service users
                    creating entities in Atlas.



End1 Entity Type
                    End1 Entity ClassificationEnd1 Entity IDEnd2 Entity TypeEnd2 Entity ClassificationEnd2 Entity ID
Refines the relationship authorization to specific
                    attributes of relationships. "End1" and "End2" indicate the
                    entities on each side of the relationship. For example, you
                    could use the End1 and End2 Entity Type options to allow
                    modification of relationships when one side of the
                    relationship are Hive tables and the other side Hive
                    columns.


Description
Information that you add to help you remember the value
                    of this policy. The description can be up to 1000
                    characters.


Audit Logging
Enables Ranger's audit logging for this policy. There
                    are other options in Ranger's configuration that can
                    conflict with this option, but generally if you turn off
                    this setting, Ranger enforces the policy but does not audit
                    success or failed actions against the policy.


Allow Conditions
Choose the roles, users, and/or groups and the
                    permissions they can access for the resources defined in the
                    policy. If you need to include parts of overlapping groups,
                    add an exclude condition in addition to the allow condition. 


Deny Conditions
Choose the roles, users, and/or groups and the
                    permissions they cannot access for the resources defined in
                    the policy. 



Click Add.
You should be able to validate the policy almost immediately after
      saving a valid policy. 

Related informationConfigure a resource-based service: AtlasAdd or edit permissions in RangerParent topic: Configuring Atlas Authorization