Configuring Atlas AuthorizationCloudera Docs
Configuring Atlas Authorization
Atlas in CDP uses Ranger policies to control access to metadata that are managed by
    Atlas. Ranger policies also control access to Atlas administrative tasks.
Ranger provides authorization to access the following metadata and operations:

Types
Atlas "types" are the entity model definitions, whether provided in
          Atlas or added in your environment. Types include these "categories":
Entity
Classification
Relationship
Business Metadata
Struct
Enum

Ranger authorization allows you to configure access for users and
          groups to perform the following operations on types:


Create
Update
Delete
Read


 The policies can be configured to apply to one or more types or all
          types. For example, the Atlas administrator user has access to create,
          update, and delete all type categories (type-category
            *).


Entities
Atlas "entities" are instances of entity types: entities represent
          assets and processes on your cluster. Ranger authorization allows you
          to configure access to users and groups to perform the following
          operations on entities:
Read
Create
Update
Delete
Read classification
Add classification
Update classification
Remove classification
Add label
Remove label
Update Business Metadata

Note that the classification operations are those that involve
          associating a classification to an entity; operations on a
          classification definition are controlled by authorization on the
          classification category of type described previously. Use the
            entity authorization to give a user the ability to associate
          an existing classification with any entity
            (entity-type *); use the type authorization
          to give a user the ability to create new classifications
            (type-category classification). 
Policies for labels and business metadata work similarly to
          classifications: you can control whether users can add labels or
          business metadata to specific entity types, individual entities, or
          entities marked with specific classifications. For example, a default
          policy allows any authenticated user to update all business metadata
          for any entity types with any classifications and on any instances of
          entities (entity-type *, entity-classification *, entity-id *,
            entity-business-metadata *).
Some Atlas features, such as saved searches, are modeled as
          entities. You can control access to these features using entity
          policies. For example, a default policy allows any authenticated user
          to save Atlas searches (entity-type __AtlasUserProfile,
            __AtlasUserSavedSearch). 


Relationships
Atlas "relationships" describe connections between two entities,
            including, but not limited to, the input and output relationships that
            are used to build lineage graphs. Ranger authorization allows you to
            configure access to users and groups to perform the following
            operations on relationships:


Add relationship
Update relationship
Remove relationship


These operations are required to build rich models among entities
          and are granted to administrative users and system users.
          Relationships cannot be updated by users through the Atlas UI.
            


Admin operations
Atlas administrative operations include:
Import entities
Export entities

These operations encompass all the privileges needed to create new
          and update existing entities. Typically, this access is granted to
          administrative users and system users such as RangerLookup and the
          Data Plane profiler user (DPProfiler).


Restricting classifications based on user permissionThe Atlas authorisation model has been updated with a new permission,             type-read, to enable restricting visibility of types to specific users, groups,         and roles.Configuring Ranger Authorization for AtlasAtlas is configured to use Ranger for authorization by default. You     might need to change configuration settings to disable Ranger as the source     of authorization in a development environment; Ranger authorization is     highly recommended in a production environment. In addition, there are some     configuration values that you might need to change should you make     significant changes to how Atlas and Ranger are installed in your     cluster.Configuring Atlas Authorization using RangerUse the Ranger Admin UI to add or update policies to control Atlas       access.Configuring Simple Authorization in AtlasAtlas in CDP uses the simple authorization, which is the default authorizer to manage         different users, user groups, and group roles.