Securing AtlasCloudera Docs
Securing Atlas
Cloudera Manager manages Atlas as a service, automatically
      ensuring Atlas can communicate securely with its clients and the services it
      depends on. Use Cloudera Manager to manage additional Atlas settings; use
      Ranger to control user access in Atlas.
When you include Atlas as a service in a cluster, Cloudera
        Manager automatically configures the following settings:

Ranger plugin. Atlas uses Ranger to determine which users have
          access to perform actions in Atlas.
TagSync with Ranger. Atlas passes entity metadata for
          classifications to Ranger using a Kafka topic.
Access Policies in Ranger. Default policies are configured for the
        following users: 
          
admin: the initial Atlas administrator user has
          full access to all Atlas actions, including full access to entity
          metadata, classifications, business metadata attributes, labels and
          relationship creation, the ability to create new entity, enumeration,
          structure, and relationship types, the ability to import, export, and
          purge metadata from Atlas, and the ability to save searches. 
dpprofiler: the Data Plane service user has the
          same extensive privileges as the admin user. These privileges allow
          integration between the Data Catalog (Data Steward Studio) and
          Atlas.
beacon: the Replication Manager service user has
          the same extensive privileges as the admin user. These privileges
          allow Atlas to participate in cluster-level disaster recovery
          operations.
rangertagsync: the TagSync service user has read
          access to entity metadata, specifically to entity classifications,
          business metadata, and labels to be used in Ranger tag-based
          policies.
rangerlookup: the Ranger lookup service user has
          read access to entity metadata, specifically to entity
          classifications, business metadata, and labels to be used in enforcing
          Ranger policies.
public: all users are granted access to read
          Atlas entity metadata, classifications, labels, and relationships
          (such as lineage). 
{USER}: any user who successfully logs in to
            Atlas can save searches so they are available in subsequent Atlas
            sessions.

          
        You will probably want to update and add to these policies to
        include users and groups in your organization who will need access to
        Atlas actions.
TLS-enabled clusters. Cloudera Manager configures:
          
The option to enable TLS for Atlas
              (atlas.enableTLS)
Keystore file
          locations and passwords for encrypting client-server communication
Trust store location and password for the Atlas server to communicate as a client to other
          services such as HBase and Solr
Trust store location and password for the Atlas gateway role
              that passes information through Kafka topics.
noteIn CDP Cloud, communication
            among services within the cluster is configured to use TLS by default.
            There is no need to manually configure TLS for Atlas in an SDX cluster.
            

Kerberos-enabled clusters. Cloudera Manager configures:
        Principals for Atlas service users
Ranger policies to support authentication for Atlas server and hook
          communication to Kafka
Ranger policies to support authentication for the Atlas server to
          communicate with Solr and HBase
noteIn CDP Cloud, user authentication is managed using 
            Free IPA and Kerberos. There is no need to manually configure
            authentication settings for Atlas.


noteGovernance through Apache Atlas is just one element of a secure production cluster:
      Cloudera supports Atlas when it runs on a cluster where enabling Kerberos is optional to
      authenticate users. Altas works even without Kerberos enabled.
Setting Atlas session inactivity timeout
For Atlas, you can configure the session inactivity timeout.
In your Cloudera Manager for Atlas service, search for the property
          atlas.session.timeout.secs. By default, the value is -1. You can set the
        value of this property to 900 (15 seconds). 
For example: atlas.session.timeout.secs=900


Related informationEnable Auto-TLSFreeIPA identity management