Resetting homepage to defaultCloudera Docs
Resetting homepage to default
Both users and administrators can change the Data Visualization homepage back to its
    default value.

Reseting your own homepage to default
When a simple user resets their homepage to default, it reverts to the setting that
          applies to all users.
The following steps demonstrate how you can set your homepage back to default:

Log in as a user with simple viewing privileges.

On the main navigation bar, click the Gear icon to open the
            Settings menu.

Click Set Homepage in the drop-down menu.
The Set Homepage interface appears.

Click Reset to admin-defined homepage.
You can see that the dashboard changes to the default global homepage.A message
            confirming the success of setting the dashboard to the admin-defined default appears
            briefly.

Click HOME at the top navigation bar to check that the
          admin-defined dashboard you have just specified appears.

The HOME view changes to the default homepage defined by the
            administrator.


Resetting all user's homepages to Data Visualization default
When an administrator resets the homepage to the default homepage, the new homepage will
          be the original Data Visualization starting page for all users.

Log in as an admin user.

On the main navigation bar, click the Gear icon to open the
            Settings menu.

Click Set Homepage in the drop-down menu.
The Set Homepage interface appears.

Scroll down to the Admin Only section.

Click Reset to default homepage.
A message confirming the success of setting the homepage to default appears
          briefly.

 If you mark Disable user-override of homepage, you can prevent
          users from overriding the default homepage that you have set.
A message confirming the success of setting the dashboard as your homepage appears
          briefly.

Log out from CDV and log in as a user with simple viewing privileges.

Log in as a user with simple viewing privileges.

If the user does not have a custom homepage set, clicking HOME
          at the top navigation bar takes you to the Data Visualization Welcome page you as an admin
          have just reset.







