Getting Started with the Management User InterfaceCloudera Docs
Getting Started with the
      Management User Interface
The Management user interface provides mechanisms for adding parsers, enriching
      telemetry events, configuring and prioritizing threat intelligence, and tuning parser Storm
      parameters.You can use the Management user interface main window to view existing parsers, start, stop,
         pause, and delete parsers, and start the process to add a new parser. Table 1. Management UI Main Window

Tools
Description



Operations panel
You can use the functions in the Operations panel to view existing
                        sensors or view general settings.


Management icons
You can use the management icons to start, stop or pause a sensor, edit
                        a sensor, or delete a sensor. 


Add new sensor
You can change the status of or dismiss an alert. 


Meta Alerts

The meta alert feature enables you to create a system entity that
                           contains a collection of filtered alerts.


You can use the sensor panel in the Management user interface to create new
            sensors. Table 2. New Sensor Panel

Tools
Description



New parser name
The name of the new parser. This name typically matches the name of the
                        telemetry.


Kafka topic name
The name of the Kafka topic. This name typically matches the name of the
                        telemetry.


New parser type
The type of parser you are creating.


New parser Grok statement
The Grok statement for the new parser.


Transformations, enrichments, threat intelligence

Displays the panels for transforming the telemetry data or adding
                           enrichments and threat intelligence information.



Threat triage
Displays the panel to prioritize for the telemetry threat intelligence
                        information.


Storm settings
Displays the panel to configure Storm settings.

Table 3. Advanced Sensor Panel

Tools
Description



Raw JSON settings
Displays the panel to add or modify the sensor parser configuration,
                        enrichment configuration, and indexing configuration.


HDFS settings
Enables the HDFS index, and specifies the HDFS name and batch
                        size.


Elasticsearch settings
Enables the Elasticsearch index, and specifies the HDFS name and batch
                        size.


Solr settings

Enables the Solr index, and specifies the HDFS name and batch size.



New parser configurations
The name and value for a new parser configuration.


