Use cases for Replication Manager in CDP Private Cloud Data ServicesCloudera Docs
Use cases for Replication Manager in CDP Private Cloud Data Services
Replication Manager is a service in CDP Private Cloud Data Services. You can use this
  service to copy and migrate HDFS data, Hive external tables, and Ozone data between CDP Private
  Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher clusters using Cloudera Manager version 7.7.3 or higher.
You can use Replication Manager for a variety of use cases. Some use cases
   include:

Implementing a complete backup and restore solution.You might want to
     implement a backup and restore solution for HDFS data or Hive external tables. You create the
     replication policy based on the type of data you want to backup and restore. To implement this
     use case, you backup data in ClusterA to ClusterB. When the need arises, you can create another
     replication policy to restore the data from ClusterB to ClusterA. 
Replicating the required data to another cluster to run workloads or analytics.Sometimes, you might want to move workloads, especially heavy-duty workloads to another
     cluster to reduce the load and optimize the performance of the primary cluster, or run
     analytics on the required data on another cluster because you do not want to overload the
     primary cluster. In such scenarios, you can create replication policies in Replication Manager
     to replicate the required data at regular intervals. After replication, you can use the
     required tools to analyze the data.


Replicating Ozone data in OBS buckets between secure clustersObject store buckets (OBS) are storage buckets where all the keys are written into a         flat namespace. It can be accessed using the S3 interface provided by Ozone. Ozone         replication policies support data replication between OBS buckets in source and target         clusters that support S3A filesystem using the S3A scheme or replication protocol. You can         replicate Ozone data in OBS buckets between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher clusters         using Cloudera Manager version 7.7.3 or higher.Tracking, monitoring, and troubleshooting replication policiesAfter you create a replication policy, you can track the replication policy job   progress, monitor the status of the replication policies, and troubleshoot the failed replication   policies in CDP Private Cloud Data Services Replication Manager.