Tracking, monitoring, and troubleshooting replication policiesCloudera Docs
Tracking, monitoring, and troubleshooting replication policies
After you create a replication policy, you can track the replication policy job
  progress, monitor the status of the replication policies, and troubleshoot the failed replication
  policies in CDP Private Cloud Data Services Replication Manager.
Tracking and monitoring replication policies
You can view, track, and monitor the available replication policies on the
    Replication Manager UI in CDP Private Cloud Data Services using the following pages:

Overview page shows the statistics in the
      Policies, Jobs, and Issues &
      Updates panels.
Replication Policies page lists all the replication policies
     and information about each replication policy.


Troubleshooting replication policies
You can use one of the following methods to troubleshoot a failed replication
    policy:


On the Replication Policies page, you can:
click Actions > Collect diagnostic bundle for a replication policy to generate a diagnostic bundle for the
                replication policy. You can download the bundle as a ZIP file to your machine.
click Actions > View Log for a replication policy to download, copy, or open the log to track
                the job and to troubleshoot any issues.tipOn the Overview > Issues & Updates panel, the Job Status column shows the
                  current job status. If the job failed, click Failed to view
                  the log details about the job.



Click a job on the Replication Manager > Replication Policies > Job History panel to view the following job details:

Steps that Replication Manager ran for the job along with the timestamp and job
              details on the General tab. 
Source and destination command output on the Command
                Details tab.
Stack trace for the commands that ran on the source Cloudera Manager for
              the failed job on the Setup Error tab.

You can download the CSV reports from the General  > HDFS Replication Report field to track the replication jobs and to troubleshoot issues. The
            reports include performance statistics and file error listing.

Click Cloudera Manager > Running Commands for the source or target cluster. The recent command history shows the failed
     commands.
Open the service logs in Cloudera Manager to track the errors on the source
     cluster and target cluster.tipYou can also search on the Cloudera Manager > Diagnostics >  Logs page to view the logs.



Related informationManaging HDFS replication policyManaging Hive replication policyManaging Ozone replication policyParent topic: Use cases for Replication Manager in CDP Private Cloud Data Services