Replicating Ozone data in OBS buckets between secure clustersCloudera Docs
Replicating Ozone data in OBS buckets between secure clusters
Object store buckets (OBS) are storage buckets where all the keys are written into a
        flat namespace. It can be accessed using the S3 interface provided by Ozone. Ozone
        replication policies support data replication between OBS buckets in source and target
        clusters that support S3A filesystem using the S3A scheme or replication protocol. You can
        replicate Ozone data in OBS buckets between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 or higher clusters
        using Cloudera Manager version 7.7.3 or higher.
The following task assumes that Auto-TLS and Kerberos are enabled on the source and
            target clusters, and Ranger is enabled on the source cluster.
To replicate Ozone data between OBS buckets, perform the
            following tasks:

Login to CDP Private Cloud Data Services.

Add the source and target clusters to use in Ozone replication policy using the
                    following steps:


Verify whether you have an admin or poweruser
                            role.


Go to the Replication Manager > Clusters page, and click Add Cluster.
The Management Console > Clusters > Cluster Details wizard appears. 


Enter the cluster details which include Cloudera Manager
                                URL (use Cloudera Manager hostname if Auto-TLS is
                            enabled), Username,
                                Password, Location,
                            and Data Center. 


Click Add.


For more information, see Adding clusters to a CDP Private Cloud Data
                        Services deployment

Complete the steps to configure SSL/TLS certificate exchange
                        between the Cloudera Manager instances that manage the source and
                    target clusters. 

Complete the steps in Additional configuration for OBS
                        buckets to use the required OBS buckets in an Ozone replication
                    policy.

Complete the steps in Preparing for Ozone replication
                        policies to use the Kerberos-enabled clusters, and Ranger-enabled
                    source cluster in the Ozone replication policy.

Complete the steps in Creating an Ozone replication policy
                    to create and run the Ozone replication policy.

Click the replication policy on the Replication Policies
                    page to view the job progress.

Verify whether the replicated data is available on the target cluster using the
                    Ozone shell after the replication is complete.


Parent topic: Use cases for Replication Manager in CDP Private Cloud Data Services