HBase migration prerequisitesCloudera Docs
HBase migration prerequisites
Before migrating HBase data from CDP/HDP to COD CDP Public Cloud, you have to understand
  and perform all the necessary migration preparation tasks.


If you are migrating from CDH, configure Ranger ACLs in CDP corresponding to the HBase ACLs
     in your existing CDH cluster.For more information, see Configure a resource-based service:HBase.
Migrate all applications to use the new HBase-Spark connector because the Spark-HBase
     connector that you were using in CDH or HDP is no longer supported in CDP.For more
      information, see Using the HBase-Spark connector.
Ensure that all data has been migrated to a supported encoding type before the migration.
          For more information, see Removing PREFIX_TREE Data Block Encoding . This
          step is applicable for HBase 1.x when you are migrating data from HDP 2 or CDH 5. This
          step is not applicable for HBase 2.x. 
Ensure that your HFiles are compatible with the version Apache HBase in CDP. For more
          information, see Validating HFiles.
Ensure that you upgrade any external or third-party co-processors manually because they are
          not automatically upgraded during migration. Ensure that your co-processor classes are
          compatible with CDP. For more information, see Checking co-processor classes.
Review the deprecated APIs and incompatibilities when upgrading from HDP 2.x or CDH 5.x to
          CDP. For more information, see HBase in Deprecation notices in Cloudera Runtime.
Install Cloudera Replication Plugin on the source cluster.
importantContact your Cloudera account team to get access
       to the Cloudera Replication Plugin version compatible with your source cluster CDH or HDP
       version.

On the target COD cluster, make sure ZooKeeper (2181) and RegionServer (16020) ports are
     opened for the IP addresses of all RegionServers in the source cluster.For AWS, this
      involves editing the Security Groups which are in use by the COD cluster.
Ensure that all the RegionServers' hosts in the COD cluster are resolvable by both the IP
     and name addresses by all the RegionServers' hosts in the source cluster.



Removing PREFIX_TREE Data Block EncodingBefore migrating to COD CDP Public Cloud, ensure that you have transitioned all the         data to a supported encoding type.Checking co-processor classesExternal co-processors are not automatically upgraded, you must upgrade them         manually. Before migrating, ensure that your co-processors are compatible with the         migration.Validating HFilesBefore migrating to COD CDP Public Cloud ensure that your HFiles are compatible with         the version Apache HBase in CDP.Parent topic: Cloudera Replication Plugin