HBase Migration through Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
HBase Migration through Replication Manager
Apache HBase is a scalable, distributed, column-oriented datastore that provides
  real-time read/write random access to very large datasets hosted on HDFS. In CDP Operational
  Database or COD you use Apache HBase as a datastore with HDFS and/or S3/ABFS providing the storage
  infrastructure.
You can use one of the following methods to replicate HBase data based on your
   requirements:
Table 1. Replication methods

Methods
Description
When to use



Cloudera Replication
        Plugin for cluster versions that Replication Manager does not support.
You can prepare your data for migration, then set up the replication plugin and use a
       snapshot to migrate your data.
The following list consolidates all the minimum supported versions of source and target
       cluster combinations for which you can use the replication plugin to replicate HBase data.
       The replication plugin is compatible with all the CDP Public Cloud releases.

From CDH 5.10 using CM 6.3.0 to CDP Public Cloud on AWS. See Replicate data from CDH 5 source clusters.
From CDH 5.10 using CM 6.3.4 to CDP Public Cloud on Azure. See Replicate data from CDH 5 source clusters.
From CDH 6.1 using CM 6.3.0 to CDP Public Cloud on AWS. See Replicate data from CDH 6 source clusters.
From CDH 6.1 using CM 7.1.1/6.3.4 to CDP Public Cloud on Azure. See Replicate data from CDH 6 source clusters.
CDP 7.1.1 using CM 7.1.1 to CDP Public Cloud on AWS and Azure. See Replicate data from CDP Private Cloud Base source clusters.
HDP 2.6.5 and HDP 3.1.1 to CDP Public Cloud on AWS and Azure. See Replicate data from HDP 2 and HDP 3 source clusters.

For information about use cases that are not supported by Replication Manager, see
         support matrix.


Replication Manager
You can use Replication Manager to migrate HBase data that uses HBase replication
              through HBase replication policy.
When the source cluster and target cluster meet the requirements of supported use
       cases. See caveats.The following list consolidates all the
        minimum supported versions of source and target cluster combinations for which you can use
         HBase replication policies to replicate HBase
        data.
From CDP 7.1.6 using CM 7.3.1 to CDP 7.2.14 Data Hub using CM 7.6.0. See Replicate data from CDP Private Cloud Base source
          clusters.
From CDH 6.3.3 using CM 7.3.1 to CDP 7.2.14 Data Hub using CM 7.6.0. See Replicate data from CDH 6 source clusters.
From CDH 5.16.2 using CM 7.4.4 (patch-5017) to COD 7.2.14. See Replicate data from CDH 5 source clusters.
From COD 7.2.14 to COD 7.2.14.
See support matrix for more information.



Related informationHBase Replication PolicyCreating HBase Replication PolicyCloudera Replication PluginYou can migrate your HBase data from CDH or HDP to COD CDP Public Cloud. First you have   to prepare your data for migration, then set up the replication plugin and use a snapshot to   migrate your data.Replication ManagerCloudera Replication Manager is a key CDP service to migrate data between CDP   environments, on-prem clusters, and clusters on cloud infrastructure services. Replication Manager   provides a simple, easy-to-use, and feature-rich data movement capability to deliver data and   metadata where it is needed and provides secure data backup with disaster recovery   functionality.