Enable high availability for Streams Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Enable high availability for Streams Replication Manager
 Streams Replication Manager is capable of running in high availability mode. This can
    be enabled by deploying multiple instances of the driver and service role in a
    cluster.
Streams Replication Manager (SRM) is capable of running in high availability mode. By
      enabling high availability mode for SRM, you can ensure that the replication of data and the
      monitoring of replication continues even in the case of host failure. To enable SRM high
      availability, you must deploy multiple instances of the driver and service roles on the hosts
      in a cluster.
In CDP Public Cloud this can be done when provisioning a new
      cluster with Data Hub.
note Expect an increased load when running SRM in high availability mode.
Enable high availability mode in CDP Public Cloud 
In CDP Public Cloud, high availability mode can be enabled by provisioning a Data Hub
        cluster that has multiple instances of the SRM driver and service. In terms of high
        availability, the default Streams Messaging cluster definitions behave in the following way: 
Streams Messaging Light Duty
High availability mode is enabled by default. Any cluster that you provision with
              this definition will start SRM in high availability mode. Note that it is only the
              driver that is started in high availability mode, the service role is only provisioned
              on a single host. This however, is still considered as a highly available deployment
              of SRM. 
Streams Messaging Heavy Duty
In the heavy duty definition, SRM has its own host group. However, by default, the
              SRM host group is not provisioned. When provisioning a cluster with the heavy duty
              definition, you can decide how many nodes this host group should have. To provision
              SRM in high availability mode with this cluster definition, you have to set the
              instance count of the SRM nodes host group to at least 2.

For more information on creating a Streams Messaging cluster with Data Hub, see Creating
          your first Streams Messaging cluster. 


Related informationSetting up your Streams Messaging clusterStreams Replication Manager DriverTask architecture and load-balancing