Enabling Remote QueryingCloudera Docs
Enabling Remote Querying 
Remote Querying can be enabled for a cluster of SRM Service roles (SRM Service
    cluster). When this feature is enabled, the configured SRM Service cluster acts as a monitoring
    gateway and fetches metrics from other, remote SRM Service clusters. This enables you to monitor
    the replications of your whole deployment using a single SRM Service cluster.

You enable Remote Querying for the SRM Service clusters that you want to designate as
        monitoring gateways. Once enabled, the designated SRM Service cluster discovers and
        communicates with other, remote SRM Service clusters and fetches the metrics collected by
        the remote SRM Service clusters. After configuration is complete, you can use the designated
        SRM Service cluster to monitor all replications in your deployment. 
Configuration is done in Cloudera Manager by providing a list of external Kafka cluster
        aliases in the Streams Replication Manager Service Remote Target
          Clusters property. These clusters must be defined in Cloudera Manager using
        Kafka credentials.




If any of the SRM installations are located behind a proxy, complete Configuring the advertised information of the SRM
              Service role
Define all external Kafka clusters that you want to monitor. 
External clusters are defined by creating and configuring Kafka credentials. Kafka
                credentials are created and configured in Cloudera Manager on the
                    Administration > External
                    Accounts > Kafka Credentials page.
                For more information, see Defining external Kafka clusters.
Ensure that the Name property of each Kafka credential you
                create for the external Kafka clusters matches the alias set for that Kafka cluster
                in the configuration of that Kafka cluster’s co-located SRM instance. The alias can
                be found in the Streams Replication Manager Co-located Kafka Cluster
                  Alias property.
Note down the Name  property of each Kafka credential you
                create for the external Kafka clusters. You need to provide these during
                configuration.

Ensure that network connectivity and DNS resolution are established between the
            clusters in your deployment. Additionally, the SRM Service’s HTTPS port (default 6671)
            must have both inbound and outbound traffic enabled.



In Cloudera Manager, select the Streams Replication Manager service.Go to Configuration.Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Service Remote Target
            Clusters property.Add a comma separated list of the external
          Kafka cluster aliases that you want to monitor. For example:remote_1, remote_2
tipCluster aliases are specified during Kafka credential creation. A cluster
            alias is equivalent to the Name of the Kafka credential. Ensure
            that the aliases you add match the names of the Kafka credentials you created.
            Additionally, ensure that the aliases are identical with the aliases used on the remote
            clusters that you want to monitor. Click Save Changes. Restart the Streams Replication Manager service. 

Remote Querying is enabled and configured for the selected SRM Service cluster.
        The SRM Service cluster discovers and then communicates with other, remote SRM Service
        clusters and fetches metrics available on the remote SRM Service clusters.



If any of the remote SRM Services have Basic Authentication enabled, complete Configuring Basic Authentication for Remote Querying.
Access the Replications page on the SMM UI. Remote replications
          will be visible in the UI. 
Query metrics using the SRM REST API. For example:
Go to Streams Replication Manager > Web
                  UI > SRM Service Swagger UI. 
Find and open the /v2/replications endpoint.
Click Try it out then click
                Execute.The response includes all discovered replications,
                replicated topics, and various other metrics. This includes replications that target
                remote clusters.




Related informationRemote QueryingParent topic: Configuring Remote Querying