Adding clusters to SRM’s configurationCloudera Docs
Adding clusters to SRM’s configuration
After both the external and co-located are defined, you must add them to the Streams
    Replications Manager (SRM) service’s configuration. This is done by configuring various
    configuration properties in Cloudera Manager.

Defining the clusters that you want to replicate is not sufficient. You must add the
        clusters you defined to the SRM service’s configuration. This is required because SRM does
        not automatically pick up the clusters that you define.


Ensure that you have reviewed Defining and adding clusters for replication and
          understand that the following list of steps are only one part of the full configuration
          workflow. 

In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters and select the Streams
          Replication Manager service.Go to Configuration.Add the clusters defined with Kafka credentials to SRM’s configuration:
Find and configure the External Kafka Accounts
              property.
Click the add button and add new lines for each Kafka credential you
              created.
Add the names of all Kafka credentials.Each Kafka credential must be added to a new line. For
                example:useast
usnorth
noteThe alias representing the
                co-located cluster should only be included in this list if the co-located cluster
                was defined with a Kafka credential. If you used the service dependency method to
                define the co-located cluster, this list should only contain the external
                clusters.
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Cluster
            alias property.Add all cluster aliases including:

Aliases present in the External Kafka Accounts property


If the co-located cluster was defined with a service dependency, include the alias
                present in the Streams Replication Manager Co-located Kafka Cluster Alias
                property. 

Delimit the aliases with commas. For
            example:useast, usnorth, uswestClick Save Changes.Restart the SRM service.
Both external and co-located Kafka clusters are added to SRM's
      configuration.
Add and configure replications. Alternatively, if replications are already
      configured, you can continue with configuring the srm-control tool.

Related informationConfiguring replicationsConfiguring srm-controlParent topic: Defining and adding clusters for replication