Configuring the service role target clusterCloudera Docs
Configuring the service role target cluster
The Streams Replication Manager Service role's target cluster is the cluster from which
    metrics are gathered and exposed. Multiple targets can be configured for each instance of the
    service with the Streams Replication Manager Service Target Cluster property. Configuration is
    mandatory.

The Streams Replication Manager Service role consists of a REST API and a Kafka Streams
        application that aggregates and exposes cluster, topic, and consumer group metrics. With the
        help of these metrics, users can monitor replications. The service can be installed on one
        or more hosts per cluster.
Each instance of the service is associated with at least one target cluster. The target is
        the cluster that the service gathers and exposes metrics from. Each instance of the service
        can have multiple targets. As a result, it is possible to use a single instance of the
        Service role to target and monitor multiple clusters.
Service role target clusters are configured with the Streams Replication Manager
          Service Target Cluster property. The property accepts any cluster alias that
        is specified in Streams Replication Manager Cluster alias as long as
        data is being replicated to that cluster. Configuring at least a single service target is
        mandatory.


In Cloudera Manager, select Streams Replication Manager. Go to Configuration.
Find the Streams
                Replication Manager Service Target Cluster property. Add your target cluster aliases.The number of aliases you add depends
          on whether you want the Service role to target and monitor a single cluster or multiple
            clusters.If you want to target a single cluster, add a single cluster alias. For
            example:secondaryIf you want to target multiple clusters,
            add multiple aliases separated by commas. For
            example:primary,secondary,tertiaryEnter a Reason for change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart Streams Replication Manager.

The Service role targets are configured. The Service role gathers and exposes metrics
      from the specified clusters.

