Defining and adding clusters for replicationCloudera Docs
Defining and adding clusters for replication
Before you can start replicating data with Streams Replication Manager (SRM), you must
    define the clusters that take part in the replication process and add them to SRM’s
    configuration. Defining and adding the clusters provides SRM with the necessary connection and
    security information it needs to replicate data.
In order for SRM to replicate data between clusters, you have to define these clusters in
      Cloudera Manager and add them to the SRM service’s configuration. In order to correctly
      configure your clusters, you need to complete multiple configuration tasks. The configuration
      workflow is the following:


1 Defining external clusters
In any given scenario, you start with defining your external clusters. External clusters
          are defined by creating and configuring Kafka credentials. A Kafka credential is an item
          that contains the connection properties required by SRM to establish a connection with a
          cluster. You can think of a Kafka credential as the definition of a single cluster. It
          contains the name (alias), address (bootstrap servers), and credentials that SRM can use
          to access a specific cluster.Kafka credentials are created and configured in Cloudera
            Manager on the Administration > External
                Accounts > Kafka Credentials page. How
            you configure each Kafka credential depends on the security configuration of the cluster
            that it defines. Once a Kafka credential is created, the properties needed to access
            that cluster become available to SRM. 
2 Defining co-located clusters

Co-located Kafka clusters can be defined in either of two ways. You can define these
            clusters using a service dependency or by using Kafka credentials. Cloudera recommends
            that you follow the recommendations provided and choose the method based on the security
            configuration of the co-located Kafka cluster. Additionally, Cloudera recommends that
            you use the service dependency method whenever possible. The method you choose also
            impacts how you configure the srm-control tool. note It is possible
              that your deployment does not have any co-located clusters, or if there are multiple
              instances of SRM, only some have a co-located cluster. If there is no co-located
              cluster, you do not need to define it.

2a Defining co-located clusters using a service dependency
The service dependency method works by enabling a service dependency between the SRM
          service and the co-located Kafka cluster, specifying an alias for the co-located cluster,
          and configuring security related properties.Cloudera recommends that you use this
            method if:

The co-located Kafka cluster is not secured.


The co-located Kafka cluster uses Kerberos for authentication.


2b Defining co-located clusters using Kafka credentials
Kafka credentials can be used to define co-located clusters. The steps to define a
          co-located cluster with a Kafka credential are identical to the steps you take when
          defining external clusters.Cloudera recommends that you use this method if the
            co-located Kafka cluster uses an authentication mechanism that is not Kerberos, for
            example PLAIN.


3 Adding clusters to SRM’s configuration

Once both external and co-located clusters are defined, you must add all defined
            clusters to SRM’s configuration. This is done by configuring various configuration
            properties in Cloudera Manager.


Continue reading for step-by-step instructions on how to complete each of the configuration
      tasks.

Defining external Kafka clustersBefore you can start replicating data with Streams Replication Manager (SRM), you     must define the external Kafka clusters that take part in the replication process. This is done     using Cloudera Manager by creating Kafka credentials.Defining co-located Kafka clusters using a service dependencyBefore you can start replicating data with Streams Replication Manager (SRM), you     must define the co-located Kafka clusters that take part in the replication process. This can be     done by enabling a service dependency between the SRM service and the co-located Kafka cluster,     specifying an alias for the co-located cluster, and configuring security related     properties.Defining co-located Kafka clusters using Kafka credentialsBefore you can start replicating data with SRM, you must define the co-located Kafka     clusters that take part in the replication process. This can be done using Cloudera Manager by     creating Kafka credentials.Adding clusters to SRM’s configurationAfter both the external and co-located are defined, you must add them to the Streams     Replications Manager (SRM) service’s configuration. This is done by configuring various     configuration properties in Cloudera Manager.