Configuring properties not exposed in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring properties not exposed in Cloudera Manager
There are a number of configuration properties that Streams Replication Manager (SRM)
    accepts, but are not exposed directly in Cloudera Manager. You can configure these properties
    with the Streams Replication Manager's Replication Configs property.

In addition to the configuration properties exposed directly for configuration through
        Cloudera Manager, SRM accepts number of additional properties including SRM specific
        properties, Kafka Connect worker properties, as well as Kafka properties available in the
        version of Kafka that you are using. Properties not exposed directly in Cloudera Manager can
        be set through the Streams Replication Manager's Replication Configs
        property.
The following steps demonstrate how these properties can be configured using the
          Streams Replication Manager's Replication Configs property. If you
        want to learn more about the properties that you can configure, see the links provided in
        the Related information section at the bottom of this page.


Make sure that cluster aliases and replications are configured. Otherwise cluster or
        replication level configuration is not possible. 


In Cloudera Manager, select Streams Replication Manager. Go to Configuration.
Configure properties not
          exposed in Cloudera Manager:

Find the Streams Replication
                Manager's Replication Configs property.
Click the add button and add
              new lines for each additional property you want to configure.
Add configuration properties. For example:
offset.flush.timeout.ms=20000


Enter a Reason for change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart Streams Replication Manager.

Configuration properties not directly exposed in Cloudera Manager are
      configured.

Related informationConfiguration Properties Reference for Properties not Available in Cloudera           ManagerConfiguring replication specific Kafka Connect REST serversUnderstanding SRM properties, their configuration and hierarchy