Defining co-located Kafka clusters using a service dependencyCloudera Docs
Defining co-located Kafka clusters using a service dependency
Before you can start replicating data with Streams Replication Manager (SRM), you
    must define the co-located Kafka clusters that take part in the replication process. This can be
    done by enabling a service dependency between the SRM service and the co-located Kafka cluster,
    specifying an alias for the co-located cluster, and configuring security related
    properties.

The following list of steps walk you through how you can define the co-located
        Kafka cluster using a service dependency.


Ensure that you have reviewed Defining and adding clusters for replication and
          understand that the following list of steps are only one part of the full configuration
          workflow. 

In Cloudera Manager, go to Clusters and select the Streams
          Replication Manager service.Go to Configuration.Configure the co-located cluster:
Find and enable the Kafka Service
            property.
Find and configure the Streams Replication Manager Co-located
                Kafka Cluster Alias property.The alias you configure
              represents the co-located cluster. Enter an alias that is unique and easily
              identifiable. For example:uswest
Optional: If the co-located cluster uses any type of security,
              enable the relevant security feature toggles.

If the cluster uses TLS/SSL, enable the following properties:
Enable TLS/SSL for SRM Driver
Enable TLS/SSL for SRM Service

If the cluster uses Kerberos authentication, enable the Enable
                    Kerberos Authentication property.
If the cluster uses TLS/SSL and Kerberos, enable all three properties.



The co-located Kafka cluster is defined using a service dependency.
Add both external and co-located Kafka clusters to SRM’s configuration.

Related informationAdding clusters to SRM’s configurationParent topic: Defining and adding clusters for replication