Creating a standard YARN serviceCloudera Docs
Creating a standard YARN service
You can create a standard service as a template and deploy it based on your
        requirements.

On the Services page of the YARN Web User Interface,
                    click New Service.

In the User name for service field, specify the name of
                    the user who launches the service.

Enter the service definition details.



Service Name: Enter a unique name for the
                                application.


Queue Name: Enter the name of the YARN queue
                                to which this application should belong.


Service Lifetime: Life time of the application
                                from the time it is in STARTED state till the time it is
                                automatically destroyed by YARN. If you want to have unlimited life
                                time, do not enter any value.


Service Components: Enter the details of the
                                service components such as component name, CPU required, memory,
                                number of containers, artifact ID, and launch command. If it is an
                                application like HBase, the components can be a simple role like
                                master or RegionServer. For a complex application, the components
                                can be other nested applications with their own details.


Service Configurations: Set of configuration
                                properties that can be ingested into the application components
                                through environments, files, and custom pluggable helper docker
                                containers. You can upload files of several formats such as
                                properties files, JSON files, XML files, YAML files, and template
                                files.


File Configurations: Set of file
                                configurations that needs to be created and made available as a
                                volume in an application component container. You can upload JSON
                                file configurations to add to the service.




Click Save.

Specify a name for the new service and click Add.
The newly created service is added to the list of saved templates.noteClick
                            Reset if you do not want to save your changes and
                        specify the service details again.

Select the service and click Deploy to deploy it.


Parent topic: Creating new YARN services using UI