List of required configuration parameters for the Kafka Filter to Kafka ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
List of required configuration parameters for the
      Kafka Filter to Kafka ReadyFlow
When deploying the Kafka Filter to Kafka ReadyFlow, you have to provide the following parameters. Use the
  information you collected in Prerequisites.
Table 1. Kafka Filter to Kafka ReadyFlow configuration parameters

 Parameter Name
Description



CDP Workload User
Specify the CDP machine user or workload user name that
       you want to use to authenticate to Kafka. Ensure this user has the appropriate access rights
       in Ranger for the source and target Kafka topics.


CDP Workload User Password
Specify the CDP machine user or workload user name that you want
       to use to authenticate to Kafka.


Data Input Format
Specify the format of your input data. If your data input is CSV,
       define a CSV delimiter for the data in the CSV Delimiter text box. If
       you use AVRO or JSON format, the delimiter is ignored.
CSV
JSON
AVRO



Data Output Format
Specify the format of your output data. If your data input is
       CSV, define a CSV delimiter for the data in the CSV Delimiter text
       box. If you use AVRO or JSON format, the delimiter is ignored.
CSV
JSON
AVRO



CSV Delimiter
If your source data is CSV, specify the delimiter here.


Filter Rule
If you want to filter your data for the destination
        topic, enter a filter rule expressed in SQL.Records matching the filter are
        written to the destination topic in Kafka. If you do not provide a specific filter rule, the
        default rule forwards all records.Default rule:SELECT * FROM
       FLOWFILE


Kafka Broker Endpoint
Specify the Kafka bootstrap servers string as a comma separated
       list in the format <host>:<port>.


Kafka Consumer Group ID

Add the name of the consumer group used for the source topic you are consuming
        from.
Make sure to use the Consumer Group ID that the selected CDP Workload User is
        allowed to use.



Kafka Source Topic
Specify a topic name that you want to read from.


Kafka Destination Topic
Specify a topic name that you want to write to.


Kafka Producer ID
Use it to identify your data flow in SMM.


Schema Name

Specify the schema that you want to use in your data flow.
DataFlow looks up this schema in the Schema Registry you define with the Schema
        Registry Hostname. See the Appendix for an example schema.



Schema Registry Hostname

Specify the hostname of the Schema Registry running on the master node in the
        Streams Messaging cluster that you want to connect to.
This must be the direct hostname of the Schema Registry itself, not the Knox
        Endpoint.




Related conceptsPrerequisites