March 25, 2022Cloudera Docs
March 25, 2022
New features in the 1.3.4 release of the CDP Private Cloud
    Management Console service.

Terminology Changes
The following terminology has been changed: 
"Private Cloud Experiences" is now "Private Cloud Data
              Services"
"Experiences Cluster" is now "Containerized Cluster" 
"Experiences Compute Service" is now "Embedded Container
              Service"


External database names, hosts, ports,
          usernames, and passwords are now exposed through an Environment
          Service configuration
External database names, hosts, ports,
          usernames and passwords are now exposed through an Environment Service
          configuration called \unifiedDbDetails. It can be
          fetched or updated using the get-environment-setting
          or set-environment-setting command of the CDP
          Environments CLI, respectively. When these configurations are set, any
          new values provided will be merged with existing values, with new
          values taking precedence. 


When installing CDP Private Cloud Data Services, you can now select which Docker images to download
Prior to this change, all images were
          downloaded, regardless of which Data Services are deployed. With this
          change, you can select which images to download during the
          installation process. 
        


Rancher Kubernetes Engine (RKE) has been
          updated to version 1.21.8



Longhorn has been upgraded to version 1.2.2 



Cloudera Manager now prevents ECS Server hosts from running workloads.
ECS Server nodes will now automatically be
          configured by Cloudera Manager to prevent workloads from running on
            them.


ECS hosts can now be configured to reserve
          then for workloads that require GPU drivers
You can configure this
          in the following ways:
During ECS installation. After adding the GPU host(s) to
              Cloudera Manager but prior to creation of the ECS cluster, visit
              the Host Configuration page, select the "Dedicated GPU Node for
              Data Services" checkbox and Save the configuration. Repeat for all
              hosts on which the taint is desired. Then, proceed with
              installation via the Add Cluster wizard. 
During ECS upgrade. After upgrading Cloudera Manager (if
              applicable), set the host configuration as described above on one
              or more hosts in the ECS cluster. Then, proceed with upgrade via
              the Upgrade Cluster wizard. 
Independently of ECS install or upgrade. Set the host
              configuration as described above on one or more hosts in the ECS
              cluster. Redeploy the client configuration on the ECS cluster.
              Finally, run the "Reapply All Settings to Cluster" command on the
              ECS service, which can be found in the Service Actions menu.



SELinux  is now supported for ECS clusters. 
See Configuring a Containerized cluster
            with SELinux for the steps to configure SELinux. 
 
FreeIPA is now supported for Kerberos
          configurations
See Configuring LDAP authentication for
            CDP Private Cloud



Parent topic: What's new