Fixed Issues for the CDP Private Cloud Data Services Management ConsoleCloudera Docs
Fixed Issues for the CDP Private Cloud Data Services
    Management Console
This section lists the issues that have been fixed since the last
    release of the CDP Private Cloud Management Console service.
Fixed Issues in Management Console 1.5.1 


OPSAPS-65551: Increase default fd limit for ECS
The default maximum process FD limit for the ECS agent and
            server roles has been set to 1048576 to avoid a "too many open files" error. Changes
            have been made to EcsParams, EcsAgentRoleHandler and
              EcsServerRoleHandler.




OPSAPS-65852: Any stop of an ECS role should include a
            drain
Previously, stopping and starting an ECS Role only stopped and
            started the role respectively, which caused issues in Kubernetes and Longhorn volume
            health to turn bad. Now, when a user stops an ECS Role (Server or Agent), we perform a
            "cordon" followed by a "drain" on the node and then stop the ECS Role on the node. When
            starting an ECS Role, we first start the ECS Role, then we do an "uncordon" on the node
            to allow Kubernetes to reuse the node for its workload. A restart operation on ECS
            Service will perform a Rolling Restart, which does the same steps involved in stopping
            and starting roles, but one node at a time.




OPSX-3716: Certificates updated against key "undefined"
            from control plane UI
Previously users were able to upload certificates without
            choosing a certificate type. This caused certificates to be saved as undefined. This fix
            now enforces users to choose Certificate Type before they can save the certificate.




OPSAPS-58019: krb5.conf had includedir DIRNAME that
            caused krb5.conf to not get copied into CML and CDW
Fixed the issue where if the /etc/krb5.conf
            file on the Cloudera Manager host contained include or
              includedir directives, Kerberos-related failures sometimes occurred.
            Expanded the include and includedir contents as part
            of the krb5.conf content before return to the user so that the files
            referred by these two directives do not need to be de-referenced by the user.


OPSX-3942, ENGESC-19665: CP logs occupies large amount of
            disk space
Fixed the issue where control plane logs were taking up a large
            amount of disk space: 1. Clean up the files created under the /tmp
              directory after the bundle collection.2. Include control plane logs while
              purging. CP logs will be present in the /data/cp directory.
            


OPSX-3619: Installer exits even with pending pods in
            single node installation
Fixed the issue with a single node ECS deployment where the
            installer exited prematurely while pods were still in a pending state.  




OPSX-4010: [UI Issue] Deletion Response sent immediately
            but deletion happens in 1 Min
Fixed the issue where after a backup deletion request from the
            UI, and a confirmation pop-up, the actual deletion did not occur until approximately one
            minute later. 


ENGESC-20112: Unable to progress ECS Upgrade
Fixed the issue where the Starting ECS Agent command failed
            during upgrade, but did not support retry, so the upgrade could not be resumed. 


OPSX-2062: Platform not shown on the Compute Cluster UI
            tab
Fixed the issue on the CDP Private Console UI in ECS, where when
            listing the compute clusters, the Platform field is empty (null) instead of displaying
            RKE as the Platform.


OPSAPS-66433: Support rolling upgrade for Docker
            service
Added support for rolling restart of the embedded Docker
            service. Support rolling upgrade of the Docker service while upgrading Private
            Cloud.


OPSAPS-66559: Create command to clear pending pods in the
            cluster
The Refresh ECS command will restart the pods that are in
            pending state for 10 minutes. This value can be configured using the
              WAIT_TIME_FOR_POD_READINESS parameter.


OPSAPS-65753: Upgrade CP before upgrading K8S
When upgrading an ECS cluster, the control plane will be
            upgraded before Kubernetes is upgraded.


PULSE-498: Alerts for Ozone health tests are not reported
            on the Control Plane dashboard
The Cloudera Monitoring Grafana Control Plane dashboard now
            displays alerts for the Ozone service.


PULSE-77: schemaVersion should be updated to 3
The topology schema version has been upgraded to version 3,
            which has stopped the invalid schema version:2 error message appearing in the log
            files.


PULSE-53: nil pointer reference on calling createSilence
            API via CDP CLI
You can now silence your alerts from the CDP CLI. Alert
            silencing avoids repeated alert pings when troubleshooting issues. 



Fixed Issues in Management Console 1.5.0 

COMPX-13184 Yunikorn-admission-controller not getting scheduled after restart due to
            lack of tolerations
 Fixed the issue where ecs-webhooks from the ECS platform failed to update the
            YuniKorn namespace. Due to this lack of toleration update from ECS, YuniKorn will insert
            this toleration from Liftie deployment as an interim update.


Fixed Issues in Management Console 1.4.0 

OPSX-2697 Not all images are pushed in upgrade
Fixed the issue of a retry of an upgrade failing at the Copy
            Images to Docker Registry step due to images not being found
            locally. 


Fixed Issues in Management Console 1.3.x

CVE-2021-44228 (Apache Log4j 2 vulnerability) has been addressed
            in CDW on CDP Private Cloud Management Console version 1.4.0 
Log4j 2 has been upgraded to version 2.17.
Fix copy-docker-template
Fixed the issue of a retry of only the Push Images to Docker
            Registry failing due to the image not being available locally. 
NFS provisioner fails on cluster with more than ~10 nodes
Fixed longhorn nfs_provisioner failing to start on clusters with
            more than 10 nodes.
Longhorn for Kubernetes is upgraded to version 1.2.x
Longhorn has been upgraded from version 1.1.2 to 1.2.x
ECS High Availability fails during installation
Fixed an issue where selecting multiple ECS Server hosts during
            install would randomly result in a installation failure. 



