Impala metadata collectionCloudera Docs
Impala metadata collection
Atlas can collect metadata for queries from Impala.
  It collects metadata for affected data assets from Hive Metastore (HMS).
 An Atlas hook runs in each Impalad instance. This hook sends metadata to Atlas for Impala 
      operations, which are represented by process and process execution
      entities in Atlas.
In addition, an Atlas hook runs in Hive Metastore (HMS). Before sending
      metadata to Atlas, Impala synchronizes its metadata with HMS. This
      synchronization makes sure that Impala uses the same names and IDs as HMS. 


When an action occurs in the Impala instance...
Impala updates HMS with information about the assets affected by the
        action.
The Atlas hook for HMS collects information for the changed and new
        assets and forms it into metadata entities. It publishes the metadata to
        a Kafka topic.
The Atlas hook for the Impala instance collects information for the
        action and forms it into metadata entities. It publishes the metadata to
        a Kafka topic.
Atlas reads the messages from the topic and determines what
        information will create new entities and what information updates
        existing entities. Atlas is able to determine the correct entities
        regardless of the order in which Atlas receives messages from the Kafka
        topic.
Atlas creates the appropriate entities and determines lineage from
        existing entities to the new entities.


Impala actions that produce Atlas entitiesImpala operations that create, update, or delete Hive metadata will affect   Atlas entities; operations that only affect data do not show up in Atlas.Impala entities created in AtlasEach Impala entity in Atlas includes detailed metadata     for Impala queries.Impala lineageYou can use the Atlas lineage graph to understand the source and impact of data and     changes to data over time and across all your data.Impala audit entriesAtlas lists changes to metadata entities in the Audit tab in the     Dashboard.