Apache Atlas technical metadata migration referenceCloudera Docs
Apache Atlas technical metadata migration reference
This documentation includes an exhaustive reference of how Cloudera
    Navigator technical metadata is migrated into Atlas entities.
The migration process moves technical metadata from Navigator to Atlas in
      one of these ways:
One-to-one mapping. There are no field mapping notes.
Type conversion. The field mapping notes indicate the new type
          applied.
Data conversion. The field mapping notes indicate how the data was
          converted, such as from a string to a Boolean value (for example,
            type=FILE to isFile=True).
No reason to migrate. Navigator stored a value that has no use in
          Atlas, such as the system ID. The field mapping notes indicate that
          the value is not used in Atlas.
No value in Navigator. In most cases, if an Atlas field does not
          have an equivalent in Navigator, the Atlas field is left as null. The
          migration notes indicate if a value is filled in by default.
Not migrated. There is one case where metadata in Navigator is not
          migrated and potentially the information is lost: the Spark operation
            (spark_process) metadata for
            principal is not migrated to Atlas. The
            principal is migrated at the operation execution
            (spark_process_execution) entity level. The field
          mapping notes indicate this case.

All Atlas entities share "system" attributes. The mapping for these
      attributes is described once but apply to all entities.

Related informationMapping Navigator business metadata to AtlasSystem metadata migrationAll migrated entities in Atlas include the same top-level metadata     attributes, such as name, description, and creation time.HDFS entity metadata migrationHDFS metadata entities are migrated from Navigator to     Atlas when they appear in a lineage relationship from Hive, Impala, or Spark     processes.Hive entity metadata migrationHive metadata entities are fully migrated from Navigator to     Atlas.Impala entity metadata migrationImpala metadata entities are fully migrated from Navigator to     Atlas.Spark entity metadata migrationSpark metadata entities are fully migrated from Navigator to Atlas.AWS S3 entity metadata migrationS3 metadata entities are migrated from Navigator to     Atlas.