Configurations used for index recoveryCloudera Docs
Configurations used for index recovery
To enable index recovery, you must configure some of the underlying
        entities.
Configuration properties that must be set:
atlas.index.recovery.enable: To enable or disable
                    index recovery. 
Example: atlas.index.recovery.enable=true. By default index recovery is enabled on Atlas startup. To disable index
                recovery, set the value to false. When no index recovery data is available by
                default, Atlas considers recovery start time based on TTL - (current time minus
                tx.log TTL). By default SOLR tx.log default TTL is configured as 10 days.
atlas.graph.index.status.check.frequency: To
                    configure the frequency of SOLR health check. It takes input as time in
                    milliseconds. By default SOLR health checkup takes effect every 30 seconds.
Example:
                    atlas.graph.index.status.check.frequency=5000.
atlas.index.recovery.start.time: To start index
                    recovery by custom recovery time as provided by the user. This property must be
                    set to a timestamp in the yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssformat
If there are frequent SOLR restart operations or if SOLR is down,
                setting the start time configuration provides additional clarity. Example:
                atlas.index.recovery.start.time=2023-03-24T09:17:23.656Z.
write.ahead.log.ttl.in.hours: To configure time
                    duration for which the write-ahead transaction log is available. This property
                    value must be set in hours.

noteThe write-ahead logs live up to 10 days as per
                    JanusGraph default settings.
Example: write.ahead.log.ttl.in.hours=36.

Parent topic: Dynamic handling of failure in updating index
List of REST API for dynamic index recovery
You can use Atlas REST APIs that provide flexibility to start index recovery on
            demand, for index recovery. POST API and GET API are the supported APIs to handle index
            recovery.
POST API - Start on-demand index recovery
With this API, you can commence index recovery on-demand operation
                    providing the start time for index recovery.
API: POST
                        api/atlas/v2/indexrecovery/start?startTime=2023-04-10T06:17:23.656Z
This API recovers indices starting from earliest of
                    2023-04-10T06:17:23.656Z or from the transaction log available time.noteYou can initiate the on-demand index recovery feature
                        only as a user with administrator privileges.

GET API - Get index recovery timing details
Without REST API, if youwanted to retrieve the details about previous
                    or upcoming index recovery, the only option available is to search through Atlas
                    logs. But with this API, you can directly request for index recovery
                    details.
API: GET api/atlas/v2/indexrecovery/
Response to GET API provides recovery time of previous and
                    recent/upcoming index recovery and also provides the customTime which indicates
                    on-demand index recovery started by you through the REST API.




Index recovery time 
Learn about the Index recovery vertex properties and how Index recovery time
                    persists in a single graph vertex.
Index recovery vertex has the following properties:

Property-1: Key as “__idxRecovery_name” and with constant value as
                        ”__solrIndexRecoveryInfo”.
Property-2: Key as “__idxrecovery_startTime” and it holds the current
                        recovery time.
Property-3: Key as “__idxrecovery_prevTime” and it holds the previous
                        recovery time.
Property-4 Key as “__idxRecovery_customTime” and it holds the previous
                        recovery time started through REST API.Whenever Apache Solr
                            moves to an unhealthy state the upcoming recovery time is logged in
                            Atlas application log as Index Recovery: Stopped! Recovery time:
                                <timestamp>Every time Solr moves to an Active state
                        from an unhealthy state it is logged in Atlas application log as
                            Index Recovery: Started! Recovery time: <timestamp>
                        and current recovery time is reset to null by assigning that time to
                        previous recovery time.




