Spark metadata collectionCloudera Docs
Spark metadata collection
Atlas can collect metadata from Spark, including queries on Hive
    tables. The Spark Atlas Connector (SAC) is available as of Spark 2.4 and
    Atlas 2.1.
An Atlas hook runs in each Spark instance. This hook sends metadata to
      Atlas for Spark operations. Operations are represented by process entities
      in Atlas. Hive databases, tables, views, and columns that are referenced
      in the Spark operations are also represented in Atlas, but the metadata
      for these entities is collected from HMS. When a Spark operation involves
      files, the metadata for the file system and files are represented in Atlas
      as file system paths.


When an action occurs in the Spark instance...
It updates HMS with information about the assets affected by the
        action.
The Atlas hook corresponding to HMS collects information for the
        changed and new assets and forms it into metadata entities. It publishes
        the metadata to the Kafka topic named ATLAS_HOOK.
The Atlas hook corresponding to the Spark instance collects
        information for the action and forms it into metadata entities. It
        publishes the metadata to a different Kafka topic named
        ATLAS_SPARK_HOOK.
Atlas reads the messages from the topics and determines what
        information will create new entities and what information updates
        existing entities. Atlas is able to determine the correct entities
        regardless of the order in which Atlas receives messages from the Kafka
        topics.
Atlas creates the appropriate entities and the relationships among
        them and determines lineage from existing entities to the new
        entities.


Spark actions that produce Atlas entitiesSpark jobs create Spark application and process entities and     create, update, or delete the data assets affected by those operations will     affect Atlas entities; operations that only affect data do not show up in     Atlas.Spark entities created in Apache AtlasEach Spark entity in Atlas includes detailed metadata collected     from Spark.Spark lineageAtlas collects metadata from Spark to represent the lineage among     data assets.Spark relationshipsAtlas shows the entities related to this entity in the     Relationships tab in the Dashboard.Spark audit entriesAtlas lists changes to metadata entities in the Audit tab in the     Dashboard.Spark troubleshootingWhat do you do if you do not see Atlas metadata from Spark or face any related     issues.