Importing a dashboardCloudera Docs
Importing a dashboard
In CDP Data Visualization (CDV), you can import visuals, dashboards and other visual
    artifacts exported from another system. You can use the migration utility to port these
    artifacts from development/testing environments to production deployments or for creating
    back-ups. All you need is the appropriate JSON file that captures the definitions of these
    visual artifacts and all their dependencies (such as datasets and custom styles).
Click DATA on the main navigation bar.
Select the connection where you want to import the artifacts.

In this example, the Samples connection has been selected showing connecting to
            the same data source for both systems.


At the top of the screen, open the (supplemental) menu and
          select Import Visual Artifacts.




The Import Visual Artifacts modal window appears.




Click Choose File.Select the  file you want to import.In this example, visuals_only_param_population.json is selected.

Specify the destination workspace in the Import to Workspace
          drop-down menu.

By default, Data Visualization imports the visual artifacts into your Private
          workspace. However, you can choose the Public workspace, or another
          workspace.Specify how you want to handle thumbnails.There are three options: 

By default, Data Visualization imports the thumbnails from the file. However, you
          can choose to generate new thumbnails during the import process, or skip thumbnail
          import.Define the Disregard artifacts that exist in other workspaces
           option.Before importing an artifact, Data Visualization searches
          for it on the system. If it already exists, it is either updated (if changed from a
          previous import), or left 'as is'. If it does not exist, it is imported as a new visual
          artifact. By default, the search domain is the entire system. By selecting this option,
          you are limiting the search to the specified workspace.Check data table compatibility.This is to confirm that tables suitable
          for the incoming dataset(s) exist on the system. It means that the database and tables
          have the same names on the source and target systems. This option is 'on' by
          default.Click IMPORT.After processing the import JSON file, CDV opens the Import
          interface to show its visual artifacts. It displays the visual artifacts that you saved
          earlier into a JSON file during export. The Planned Action column
          shows that this is a new import for all artifacts. At this point, none of them have an
          assigned ID.

Click ACCEPT AND IMPORT.
After the import completes, a success message appears on the
        Import interface. All the artifacts have an assigned ID, which are
      generated by the system, sequentially. Visuals/Dashboards and datasets have separate ID
        queues.

For instructions on how to export a dashboard, see Exporting a
        dashboard.For more information about the visual artifact migration utility,
        see Exporting and importing visual artifacts.

Related informationExporting a dashboardExporting and importing visual artifacts