Getting the dashboard URLCloudera Docs
Getting the dashboard URL
Cloudera Data Visualization enables you to share a dashboard by providing a direct link
    to it. You can share the default URL of the dashboard or use a short version of the link. You
    also have the option to customize the short URL, which allows you to use more descriptive and
    more readable/memorable links. You can create your short links for example to indicate where the
    link leads or what the dashboard contains.
Short URLs can help you when adding dashboard links in emails
      or embedding the links in applications. When the user clicks the short version, they are
      automatically forwarded to the destination URL.
The Get url action is available by default, but you need
      to enable the URL shortener in site settings. For instructions, see Enabling URL
        shortener.

Open a dashboard.

Click the (ellipsis) icon in the top right corner of the
          dashboard to open the supplemental menu and click Get
            URL.
The Dashboard URL modal window is displayed.



If you want to use the default URL, click Copy URL to copy the
          full URL to your clipboard.

If you want to use a short URL, follow these steps:


Click GENERATE URL ALIAS.
A random short URL will be generated. You can customize the short URL by
                changing the last section to your custom string. Make sure to only use allowed
                characters (A-Z a-z 0-9 _-)noteIf you are trying to add an
                  alias that is already being used, CDV will ask you to change it to a unique
                  one.





Decide if you want to include the dashboard parameters and filters in the
                short URL and set the option accordingly.


Click SAVE.


The URL alias and the associated settings are saved.


The Copy URL option becomes available for the
                    newly created URL alias.


The new URL alias is added to the Aliases
                    tab.
It lists all short URLs created for the dashboard.


 shows you the parameters
                        and filters included.


 allows you to delete the
                        short URL.


 allows you to copy the
                        short URL to your clipboard.






Click Copy URL above the URL alias on the URL tab to copy the
                short URL to your clipboard. 


Click CLOSE.


This example shows an alias where a custom URL is used and a dashboard filter has been
            included in the generated URL.






Related informationEnabling URL shortener