Creating a dashboardCloudera Docs
Creating a dashboard
In CDP Data Visualization, you can easily create a new dashboard.
There are several possible starting points for creating new dashboards:

Click NEW DASHBOARD on the main
                                HOME interface, in the top right corner.
Click NEW DASHBOARD on the main
                                VISUALS interface, in the top left
                            corner.
On the DATA interface, click the (new
                                dashboard) icon next to the name of a particular
                            dataset.
On the Dataset Detail view for a particular dataset, click
                                NEW DASHBOARD in the top right corner.

The Dashboard Designer opens an untitled dashboard. See the
                            Dashboard Designer documentation to familiarize yourself
                        with the interface.
Optional: 
Change the connection and/or dataset.
Even though the dashboard is automatically connected to the parent connection
                    and dataset, you can add visuals and filters based on other connections and
                        datasets.



In the VISUALS menu, select the existing visual(s) you
                    want to add to the dashboard, either from Recently Viewed
                        Visuals, or from the listed visuals of this dataset.
                    Alternatively, you can create a new visual by clicking NEW
                        VISUAL.

In this example, the Trend of Life Expectancy and Population at end
                            of each decade visuals are used.




Click the Filters menu, and click the relevant fields to
                    add filters to your dashboard.
Alternatively, you can click CREATE CUSTOM FILTER for
                    custom selections. You can also change the dataset and the connection in this
                        menu.In this example, filters are added ased on the
                            un_region and country
                        dimensions.



Add a title for the dashboard.
Optionally, you can also add a subtitle.In this example, World Life
                            Expectancy and A new perspective are used as title and
                        subtitle.


Optional: 
You can also customize settings, styles, and create custom styles for the
                    dashboard.

Click SAVE to save the dashboard.

Click VIEW to preview the dashboard at runtime.


