Customizing dashboard layoutCloudera Docs
Customizing dashboard layout
When you have a dashboard with multiple visuals, you might need to resize and
        reorganize the visuals on the dashboard to work better for your users. In CDP Data
        Visualization, you can easily change the layout of a dashboard.
By default, visuals are arranged next to one another in
            the order as you add them to the dashboard. You can reorganize the layout by resizing or
            moving around the individual widgets on the dashboard.

Open the dashboard in Edit mode.

In the Dashboard Designer top menu bar, click
                        LAYOUT.

The Layout of Dashboard Visuals modal window
                        is displayed.
Widgets provide the following information about visuals:
Top left color squares represent datasets.
The title of the visual is displayed at the top of each widget
                                representing a visual.noteIf the widget is
                                    too small, the title is not fully displayed.
The snapshots of the actual visuals appear as thumbnails
                                making it easy to identify the individual visuals on the
                                    dashboard.noteIf the visual has been
                                    changed and not saved, the thumbnail shown might be out of date
                                    or unavailable. If the thumbnail is unavailable, an icon
                                    representing the visual type will be used instead.



Click and drag the widgets to rearrange them on the canvas.

To resize a widget, drag the bottom right corner and set the desired
                    size.

When you are ready, click APPLY LAYOUT.

The dashboard layout is updated.
In this example, you can see how the dashboard layout
            changes after rearranging the widgets on the laout modal.This is the original
                    dashboard:

This is the layout modal of the original dashboard:

This is the new dashboard layout after rearranging and resizing the
                widgets that represent the visuals included in the dashboard:

This is the updated dashboard after we applied the layout
                    changes:



