Streaming Analytics Data Hub cluster definitonsCloudera Docs
Streaming Analytics Data Hub cluster definitons
There are four Streaming Analytics cluster definitions available to deploy Streaming
  Analytics in CDP Public Cloud. You can choose from Light and Heavy duty options, and you can
  further select the cluster definitions depending on your cloud provider.
You can choose from the following template options based on your operational objectives:
Streaming Analytics Light Duty for AWS
Streaming Analytics Light Duty for Azure
Streaming Analytics Light Duty for GCP
Streaming Analytics Heavy Duty for AWS
Streaming Analytics Heavy Duty for Azure
Streaming Analytics Heavy Duty for GCP

Streaming Analytics offers real-time stream processing and stream analytics with low-latency
   and high scaling capabilities powered by Apache Flink.
Streaming Analytics templates include Apache Flink that works out of the box in stateless or
   heavy state environments. Beside Flink, the template includes its supporting services namely
   YARN, Zookeeper and HDFS. The Heavy Duty template comes preconfigured with RocksDB as state
   backend, while Light Duty clusters use the default Heap state backend. You can create your
   streaming application by choosing between Kafka, Kudu, and HBase as datastream connectors.
You can also use SQL to query real-time data with SQL Stream Builder (SSB) in the Streaming
   Analytics template. By supporting the SSB service in CDP Public Cloud, you can simply and easily
   declare expressions that filter, aggregate, route, and otherwise mutate streams of data. SSB is a
   job management interface that you can use to compose and run SQL on streams, as well as to create
   durable data APIs for the results.
In CDP Public Cloud, you can use the predefined cluster definitions within your environment to
   connect Flink and SSB with the supported service connectors.
Table 1. Connector support with Cluster Definitions

Cluster Definition
SSB Connector1
Flink Connector



Streams Messaging
Kafka, Schema Registry
Kafka, Schema Registry


Real-Time Data Mart
Kudu
Kudu


Data Engineering
Hive2
Hive


Operational Database
-
HBase



1  The SSB connectors are implemented as the Flink SQL
       connectors.2  You can also use the available Hive service from the Data Lake of the
        environment.