Purging deleted entitiesCloudera Docs
Purging deleted entities
You can use Atlas REST API calls to remove entities from Atlas.
    Only entities that have been deleted in the source system and marked as
    deleted in Atlas can be purged.
When a data asset is deleted, such as after a DROP TABLE command in
      Hive, Atlas continues to retain the asset's entity, including metadata,
      lineage, and audit record. The status of the entity is set to "deleted";
      deleted entities show up in search results when the checkbox to
        Show historical entities is checked. Deleted
      entities appear in lineage graph dimmed-out.

In some cases, it may be appropriate to remove entities for deleted
      assets from Atlas. For example, in a development or test environment, you
      may choose to clean out specific entities rather than clearing the entire
      Atlas database. Be careful not to purge entities in a production
      environment without understanding the impact of removing entities on
      compliance processes in your organization.
Deleted entities can be removed completely from Atlas by using the REST
      API call PUT /admin/purge.
When you purge a deleted entity:
The entity is removed from Atlas.
Related, dependent entities are also removed. For example, when
          purging a deleted Hive table, the deleted entities for the table
          columns, DLL, and storage description are also purged.
The entity is no longer available in search results, even with
            Show historical entities enabled.
Lineage relationships that include the purged entities are removed,
          which breaks lineages that depend upon a purged entity to show
          connections between ancestors and descendents.
Classifications propagated across the purged entities are removed in
          all descendent entities.
Classifications assigned to the purged entities and set to propagate
          are removed from all descendent entities.

Note that classifications can propagate to an entity from more than one
      source; if one source is purged, the classification will remain on the
      entity as propagated from the other source.
Purged entities cannot be restored.
Atlas retains an audit record of the purge operations, which is available
      through the REST API call POST /admin/audit. This call
      allows you to retrieve a list of entities purged in a given time interval.
      In addition, the Administration > Audit tab in the Atlas UI records
      entities that were successfully purged.

Auditing purged entitiesThe results of a successful entity purge appear in the Audits tab     of the Administration page in Atlas.PUT /admin/purge/ APIThe PUT /admin/purge/ API endpoint allows you to remove a list of     deleted entities from Atlas.POST /admin/audit/ APIThe POST /admin/audit/ API endpoint can be used to retrieve the     entity purge operations that have occurred in a given time     period.