Transform Data Source Parser InformationCloudera Docs
Transform Data Source
      Parser Information
After you create a parser, you can use the CCP Management UI to transform the data
      source data to provide more relevant and helpful information. Transformation creates a new
      event field based on an existing field value. For example, you can choose to transform a url
      to provide the domain name of the outbound connection or the IP address.
 From the list of sensors in the Management user interface main window, select your
               new sensor. 
 Click the pencil icon in the toolbar.   
The Management UI displays the sensor panel for the new sensor.

noteYour sensor must be running and producing data before you can add
                  transformation information.

 In the Schema box, click    (expand window). 
The Management UI populates the panel with message, field, and value
               information.

The Sample field displays a parsed version of a sample message from the sensor.
               The Management UI tests your transformations against these parsed messages.
You can use the right and left arrows to view the parsed version of each
               sample.
Although you can apply transformations to an existing field, users typically
               create and transform a new field. 

 To add a new transformation, either click   (edit) next to a
               field or click 
               (add) at the bottom of the Schema panel. 
The following dialog box displays:

 From INPUT FIELD, select the field to transform, enter the name of the new field in the NAME
               field, and then choose a function with the appropriate parameters in the
               TRANSFORMATIONS box. 
If you decide not to use the default values for the batchSize and
                  batchTimeout properties, you can set their values.
In the Advanced portion of the input panel, enter the
               property name (for example batchSize) and the value in the
                  PARSER CONFIG fields.

 Click SAVE.  
If you change your mind and want to remove a transformation, click the "x" next to
               the field.
Alternatively, you can add enrichment properties using the RAW
                  JSON field in the Advanced section of the
                  Schema panel.
 You can also suppress fields with the transformation feature by clicking 
               (suppress icon).  
This icon prevents the field from being displayed, but it does not remove the
               field entirely. Click SAVE. 
Parent topic: Setting Up Enrichment Configurations