Setting Up Enrichment ConfigurationsCloudera Docs
Setting Up Enrichment Configurations
You can use the enrichment topology to enhance messages with external data and manage
    threat intelligence data.
The enrichment topology is a topology dedicated to performing the following:  


Taking the data from the parsing topologies  normalized into the Metron data format
          (for example, a JSON Map structure with original_messageand
            timestamp.


Enriching messages with external data from data stores (for example,
            hbase) by adding new fields based on existing fields in the
          messages.


Marking messages as threats based on data in external data stores.


Marking threat alerts with a numeric triage level based on a set of Stellar
          rules.


The configuration for the `enrichment` topology, the topology primarily responsible for
      enrichment and threat intelligence enrichment, is defined by JSON documents stored in
      ZooKeeper.
There are two types of
        configurations, global and sensor specific.

Sensor ConfigurationYou can use the sensor-specific configuration to configure the individual enrichments     and threat intelligence enrichments for a given sensor type (for example, Snort). The sensor     configuration format is a JSON object stored in Apache ZooKeeper.Transform Data Source Parser InformationAfter you create a parser, you can use the CCP Management UI to transform the data       source data to provide more relevant and helpful information. Transformation creates a new       event field based on an existing field value. For example, you can choose to transform a url       to provide the domain name of the outbound connection or the IP address.Configure GeocodingYou can enrich your parser data by adding locations of any known external IP address.       The IP address must exist in the geocoding data that you are loading into Cloudera       Cybersecurity Platform (CCP).Configure Organization Enrichment By Using the Management User InterfaceThe organization enrichment is an HBase enrichment that provides information about       host, user, and any other assets derived from organizational data sources such as CMDB or       employee databases. After you establish dataflow to the HBase table, you can use the CCP       Management user interface or the CLI to ensure that the enrichment topology is enriching the       data flowing past.Configure Organization Enrichment By Using CLIAs an alternative to using the CCP Management user interface to map fields to HBase         enrichment, you can use the CLI.Parent topic: Enrichment Overview