About using HueCloudera Docs
About using Hue
Hue provides a one-stop querying experience in Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) that leverages Hive, Impala, and Unified Analytics SQL
            engines.
Accessing and using Hue in Cloudera Data WarehouseGet started using Hue by analyzing and visualizing your data with Impala and Hive SQL         query engines.Viewing Hive query detailsYou can search Hive query history, compare two queries, download debug bundles for   troubleshooting, and view query details, a graphical representation of the query execution plan,   and DAG information on the Job Browser page in Hue.Viewing Impala query detailsYou can view Impala query details, query plan, execution summary, and query metrics on   the new Impala Queries tab on the Job Browser page in Hue, and use this information to tune and   optimize your queries.Terminating Hive queriesIf a query is running for longer than expected, or you have accidentally triggered         it, then you can stop the query to free up the resources. Hue also allows you to stop         multiple queries at once.Comparing Hive and Impala queries in HueYou can compare two queries to know how each query is performing in terms of speed         and cost-effectiveness. Hue compares various aspects of the two queries, based on which you         can identify what changed between the executions of those two queries, and you can debug         performance-related issues between different runs of the same query.How to run a stored procedure from Hue in Cloudera Data WarehouseHPL/SQL allows you to implement business logic using variables, expressions,     flow-of-control statements, and iterations. HPL/SQL makes SQL-on-Hadoop more dynamic. You can     leverage your existing procedural SQL skills, and use functions and statements to make your     typical ETL development more productive. In Cloudera Data Warehouse, Hue provides a smart     interface to run stored procedures.Enabling stored procedures for Hive in Cloudera Data WarehouseTo create, edit, and drop procedures and functions that are written in Hive Hybrid         Procedural SQL (HPL/SQL) using the Hue query editor in CDW, you must enable the hplsql         option in the hue-safety-valve field.Enabling the SQL editor autocompleterAutocompleter provides finely tuned SQL suggestions for Hive and Impala     dialects while you enter queries into the editor window. See Brand new Autocompleter for Hive and       Impala in the Hue blog.Using governance-based data discoveryHue can use the metadata tagging, indexing, and search features available in Apache     Atlas data management. After integrating Hue with Atlas,  classifications and indexed entities     can be accessed and viewed in Hue. This topic shows you how to     use metadata classifications in Hue.Using Amazon S3 with HueHue can read to and write to an Amazon S3 bucket.Using Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with HueHue can read to and write to an Azure Data Lake Storage (ADLS) Gen2.Granting permission to access S3 and ABFS File Browser in HueOnly admin users can view and access S3 or ABFS File Browser in Hue after enabling         it. You must manually grant application permissions to non-admin users and groups for them         to be able to view and access S3 and ABFS File Browsers in Hue.Supported non-ASCII and special characters in HueAuto-generated files may often introduce non-alphanumeric characters in the file and   directory names that Hue does not support. This might cause the files or directories to not appear   on the Hue File Browser. Review the list of non-alphanumeric, non-ASCII, diacritics (accents)   characters supported in Hue for the following operations: upload, create, list in folder, view,   and rename.