Adding Project CollaboratorsCloudera Docs
Adding Project Collaborators
This topic shows you how to invite colleagues to collaborate on a
    project. 

For a project created under your personal account, anyone who belongs
        to your organization can be added as a collaborator. For a project
        created under a team account, you can only add collaborators that
        already belong to the team. If you want to work on a project that
        requires collaborators from different teams, create a new team with the
        required members, and then create a project under that account. If your
        project was created from a Git repository, each collaborator must create
        the project from the same central Git repository.
You can grant project collaborators one of three levels of access:

Viewer - Read-only access to code, data, and results.
Operator - Read-only access to code, data, and results.
          Additionally, Operators can start and stop existing jobs in the
          projects that they have access to.
Contributor - Can view, edit, create, and delete files and
          environmental variables, run sessions/experiments/jobs/models and
          run code in running jobs. Additionally, Contributors can set the
          default engine for the project.
Admin - Has complete access to all aspects of the project.
          This includes the ability to add new collaborators, and delete the
          entire project.

note
Collaborating Securely on Projects
Before adding project collaborators, you must remember that assigning
          the Contributor
or
Admin role to a project collaborator is the same as giving them
          write access to your data in CDH. This is because project contributors
          and project administrators have write access to all your project code
          (including any library code that you might not be actively
          inspecting). For example, a contributor/admin could modify project
          file(s) to insert code that deletes some data on the CDH cluster. The
          next time you launch a session and run the same code, it will appear
          as though you deleted the data yourself.
Additionally, project collaborators also have access to all actively
          running sessions and jobs. This means that a malicious user can easily
          impersonate you by accessing one of your active sessions.
          Therefore, it is extremely important to restrict project access to
          trusted collaborators only. Note that site administrators can restrict
          this ability by allowing only session creators to run commands
          within their own active sessions. 
For these reasons, Cloudera recommends using Git to collaborate
          securely on shared projects. This will also help avoid file
          modification conflicts when your team is working on more elaborate
          projects.



In Cloudera Machine Learning, navigate to the project overview page.

Click Team to open the Collaborators page.
        Search for collaborators by either name or email address and
          click Add.
        

Parent topic: Projects in Cloudera Machine Learning