Third-Party EditorsCloudera Docs
Third-Party Editors
In addition to the built-in Cloudera Machine Learning editor,
    you can configure Cloudera Machine Learning to work with third-party,
    browser-based IDEs such as Jupyter and also certain local IDEs that run on
    your machine, such as PyCharm. 

noteCustom editors run inside CML sessions. If the CML session is stopped,
        this may cause unexpected behavior in the editor UI and, in some cases, may result in data
        loss. You should, therefore, use the custom editor's UI to shut the editor down first. This
        will automatically end the CML session too. In JupyterLab you do that by clicking "Shut
          Down" in the JupyterLab "File" menu." This applies to both engines and Runtimes, and all
          versions of CML. 

When you bring your own editor, you still get many of the benefits
      Cloudera Machine Learning behind an editor interface you are
      familiar with:
Dependency management that lets you share code with confidence
CDH client configurations
Automatic Kerberos authentication through Cloudera Machine Learning
Reuse code in other Cloudera Machine Learning features such as
          experiments and jobs
Collaboration features such as teams
Compliance with IT rules for where compute, data, and/or code must
          reside. For example, compute occurs within the Cloudera Machine Learning deployment, not the local machine. Browser IDEs run within a
          Cloudera Machine Learning session and follow all the same
          compliance rules. Local IDEs, on the other hand, can bring data or
          code to a user's machine. Therefore, Site Administrators can opt to
          disable local IDEs to balance user productivity with compliance
          concerns.

In the Cloudera Machine Learning documentation, browser-based IDEs
      like Jupyter will be referred to as "browser IDEs". IDEs such as PyCharm
      that run on your machine outside of your browser will be referred to as
      "local IDEs" because they run on your local machine. You can use the
      browser or local IDE of your choice to edit and run code interactively. 
Note that you can only edit and run code interactively with the IDEs.
      Tasks such as creating a project or deploying a model require the Cloudera
      Machine Learning web UI and cannot be completed through an editor. 

Modes of Configuring Third-Party EditorsThe configuration for an IDE depends on which type of editor you want to     use.Configure a Browser IDE as an EditorWhen you use a browser IDE, changes that you make in the editor are     propagated to the Cloudera Machine Learning project. Configure a Local IDE using an SSH GatewayThe specifics for how to configure a local IDE to work with     Cloudera Machine Learning are dependent on the local IDE you want to use. Configure PyCharm as a Local IDECloudera Machine Learning supports using editors on your machine that allow     remote execution and/or file sync over SSH, such as PyCharm. Configure VS Code as a Local IDE