Run CodeCloudera Docs
Run Code
This topic shows you how to enter and run code in the
    interactive Workbench command prompt or the editor after you launch a
    session.  The editor is best for code you want to keep, while
      the command prompt is best for quick interactive exploration.
Command Prompt - The command prompt functions largely like any
        other. Enter a command and press Enter to run
        it. If you want to enter more than one line of code, use
          Shift+Enter to move to the next line. The
        output of your code, including plots, appears in the console.If you created your project from a template, you should see project
        files in the editor. You can open a file in the editor by clicking the
        file name in the file navigation bar on the left.
Editor - To run code from the editor:
Select a script from the project files on the left sidebar.
To run the whole script click  on the top navigation bar, or, highlight the code you
          want to run and press Ctrl+Enter
          (Windows/Linux) or cmd+Enter (macOS).
When doing real analysis, writing and executing your code from the
        editor rather than the command prompt makes it easy to iteratively
        develop your code and save it along the way.If you require more space for your editor, you can collapse the file
        list by double-clicking between the file list pane and the editor pane.
        You can hide the editor using editor's View menu. Code Autocomplete
The Python and R kernels include support for automatic code
          completion, both in the editor and the command prompt. Use single
            tab to display suggestions and double tab for
          autocomplete. 
Project Code Files
All project files are stored to persistent storage within the
          respective project directory at
            /var/lib/cdsw/current/projects. They can be
          accessed within the project just as you would in a typical directory
          structure. For example, you can import functions from one file to
          another within the same project. 

Parent topic: Native Workbench Console and Editor