Launch a SessionCloudera Docs
Launch a Session
Sessions allow you to perform actions such as run R or Python code. They also provide
        access to an interactive command prompt and terminal. This topic demonstrates how to launch
        a new session.Navigate to your project's Overview page. 
 Click New Session. 
New projects now default to using ML Runtimes. Legacy Engines are deprecated
                    in the current release. However, you can change the default engine later in this
                    task.

 Check the settings for your session:
If your project is using ML Runtimes, you will see the following
                    settings:


Editor
Selects the Editor; currently only Workbench is supported and
                                therefore the selector is static.
Kernel
Selects the Kernel, for example Python 3.7, R4.0.
Edition
Selects the Runtime Edition. Initially only Standard variants are
                                supported.
Version
Selects the ML Runtimes version.
noteThe selector options only consider the configurations
                                        supported by the actual deployments and certain selections
                                        will automatically limit others. For example, certain
                                        versions are only relevant for Python or certain editors are
                                        supported only with certain kernels.



If your project is using Legacy Engines, you see the following
              settings:
You see the following settings:


Editor
Selects the Editor; currently only Workbench is supported and
                                therefore the selector is static.
Kernel
Selects the Kernel. Initially only Python Runtimes are
                                supported.
Engine Image
Displays the Advanced tab in
                                    Project Settings and allows you to set
                                environment variables and the shared memory limit. 



If your project is using Legacy Engines, you can modify the engine image used
                    by this session:
You can modify the engine image used
                        by this session:


By Engine Image, click
                                Configure.
Cloudera Machine Learning displays the Project
                                Settings page.


Select the Runtime/Engine tab.


Next to Default Engine, select ML
                                Runtime or Legacy Engine.


Click Save Engine. 



Specify your Resource Profile.
This attribute will define how many vCPUs and how much memory will be reserved
                    to run the workload (for example, session including the runtime itself). The
                    minimum configuration is 1vCPU and 2 GB memory. 

 Click Start Session.
The command prompt at the bottom right of your browser window will turn
                    green when the engine is ready. Sessions typically take between 10 and 20
                    seconds to start.

Parent topic: Native Workbench Console and Editor