Modifying Project SettingsCloudera Docs
Modifying Project Settings 
Project contributors and administrators can modify aspects of the project environment
    such as the engine or ML Runtimes used to launch sessions,
    the environment variables, and to create SSH tunnels to access external resources. 

Switch context to the account where the project was created. 

Click Projects.

From the list of projects, select the one to modify.

Click Project Settings to open the Project Settings dashboard.


Options
Modify the project name and its privacy settings on this page.
Runtime/Engine
Cloudera Machine Learning ensures that your code is always run with the specific
                engine version you selected. You can select to use
                  either Legacy Engines or Machine Learning Runtimes. For legacy engines only, you
                  You can also select the engine version and add
                third-party editors here.
Advanced

Environment Variables - If there are any environmental variables that
                    should be injected into all the engines running this project, you can add them
                    to this page. For more details, see Engine Environment Variables. 
Shared Memory Limit - You can specify additional shared memory
                    available to sessions running with the project. noteYou can specify additional
                      shared memory available to sessions running with the project. The maximum size
                      of this volume is the half of your physical RAM in the node, not including
                      memory used for swap.

Tunnels
In some environments, external databases and data sources reside behind
                restrictive firewalls. Cloudera Machine Learning provides a convenient way to
                connect to such resources using your SSH key. For instructions, see SSH
                  Keys.
Delete Project
This page can only be accessed by project administrators. Remember that deleting a
                project is irreversible. All files, data, sessions, and jobs are removed. 




Related informationManaging EnginesEngine Environment VariablesSSH KeysParent topic: Projects in Cloudera Machine Learning