Managing Project FilesCloudera Docs
Managing Project Files
Cloudera Machine Learning allows you to move, rename, copy, and delete files
    within the scope of the project where they live. You can also upload new files to a project, or
    download project files. For use cases beyond simple projects, Cloudera strongly recommends using
      Git for Collaboration  to manage your projects using version control.
Switch context to the account where the project was created.
        Click Projects.From the list of projects, click on the project you want to
          modify. This will take you to the project overview. Click Files.

Upload Files to a Project

Files can only be uploaded within the scope of a single
                  project. Therefore, to access a script or data file from
                  multiple projects, you will need to manually upload it to all
                  the relevant projects.
Click Upload. Select
                    Files or
                    Folder from the dropdown, and choose
                  the files or folder you want to upload from your local
                  filesystem.
In addition to uploading files or a folder, you can upload a
                    .tar file of multiple files and
                  folders. After you select and upload the
                    .tar file, you can use a terminal
                  session to extract the contents: 


On the project overview page, click Open
                        Workbench and select a running session or
                      create a new one.
Click Terminal access. 
In the terminal window, extract the contents of the
                        .tar file:tar -xvf <file_name>.tar.gz 
The extracted files are now available for the
                        project.




Download Project Files

Click Download to download the entire
                  project in a .zip file. To download only a specific file,
                  select the checkbox next to the file(s) to be download and
                  click Download.


You can also use the checkboxes to Move,
            Rename, or Delete
          files within the scope of this project.

Related informationGit for CollaborationParent topic: Projects in Cloudera Machine Learning