Sharing Job and Session Console OutputsCloudera Docs
Sharing Job and Session Console Outputs
This topic describes how to share the results of your research
    (that is, output from sessions and jobs) with   teammates and project
    stakeholders. 
Cloudera Machine Learning lets you easily share the results of
        your analysis with one click. Using rich visualizations and
        documentation comments, you can arrange your console log so that it is a
        readable record of your analysis and results. This log continues to be
        available even after the session stops. This method of sharing allows
        you to show colleagues and collaborators your progress without your
        having to spend time creating a report. 
To share results from an interactive session, click
          Share at the top of the console page. From here
        you can generate a link that includes a secret token that gives access
        to that particular console output. For jobs results, you can either
        share a link to the latest job result or a particular job run. To share
        the latest job result, click the Latest Run link for a job on the
        Overview page. This link will always have the latest job results. To
        share a particular run, click on a job run in the job's
          History page and share the corresponding
        link.
You can share console outputs with one of the following sets of users.
          


All anonymous users with the link
            - By default, Cloudera Machine Learning allows anonymous
            access to shared consoles. However, site administrators can disable
            anonymous sharing at any
            time.
Once anonymous sharing has been disabled, all existing publicly
              shared console outputs will be updated to be viewable only by
              authenticated users.



All authenticated users with the link - This means any
              user with a Cloudera Machine Learning account will have
              access to the shared console.



Specific users and teams - Click
                Change to search for users and teams to
              give access to the shared console. You can also come back to the
              session and revoke access from a user or team the same way.



Sharing Data Visualizations 
If you want to share a single data visualization rather than an
          entire console, you can embed it in another web page. Click the small
          circular 'link' button located to the left of most rich visualizations
          to view the HTML snippet that you can use to embed the
          visualization.


