Creating a data connectionCloudera Docs
Creating a data connection
You must connect to your data before you can start using CDP Data Visualization for
    modeling and visualizing the data. You can define connections to various source systems. Learn
    how to create a simple data connection.

In Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), the connection to the database catalog is automatically
        set up when you enable Data Visualization in a Virtual Data Warehouse. noteYou can create your own connections to other data warehouses, but it
          is not supported.Database catalogs and virtual data warehouses automatically
        inherit the same security restrictions that are applicable to your CDP environment. There is
        no need to specify the security setup again for each database catalog or virtual warehouse.
        If you cannot see the data in the connected database catalog after you log in, check and
        adjust data access permissions or your environment and data warehouse user permissions.
In Cloudera Machine Learning (CML), you can set up several connection types. For example,
        you can connect Data Visualization to an Impala or Hive data warehouse. For more information
        on connection types, see Data connections in CDP Data Visualization.

importantOnly users with Manage data connections privilege can create
          and manage connections in Data Visualization. If you create a connection, you
          automatically have the privileges to create and manage datasets on this connection, and
          also build dashboards and visuals in these datasets. For more information on user
          privileges, see RBAC permissions.


On the main navigation bar, click DATA.
You get to the DATA interface, open on the
              Datasets tab.

In the side menu bar, click NEW CONNECTION.The Create New
            Data Connection modal window appears.Specify the details of the new connection.

Click TEST.If the connection is valid, the system returns a Connection Verified message.Click CONNECT.

If this operation succeeds, the name of the new connection appears on the side
        menu bar.


Parent topic: Set up your data