Creating virtual clustersCloudera Docs
Creating virtual clusters
In Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), a virtual cluster is an
    individual auto-scaling cluster with defined CPU and memory ranges. Jobs are
    associated with virtual clusters, and virtual clusters are associated with
    an environment. You can create as many virtual clusters as you
    need.

To create a virtual cluster, you must have an environment with Cloudera Data Engineering
        (CDE) enabled. noteVirtual Cluster installation fails when Ozone S3
          gateway proxy is enabled. Ozone S3 gateway proxy gets enabled when more than one Ozone S3
          Gateway is configured in the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster.As a workaround, add
            the 127.0.0.1
              s3proxy-<environment-name>.<private-cloud-control-plane-name>-services.svc.cluster.local
            entry in the /etc/hosts file of all nodes in the CDP Private Cloud
            Base cluster where the Ozone S3 gateway is installed. For example, if the private cloud
            environment name is cdp-env-1 and private cloud control plane name is
              cdp, then add the following entry in the
              /etc/hosts file:
            127.0.0.1 s3proxy-cdp-env-1.cdp-services.svc.cluster.local


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the
          Data Engineering tile. The CDE Home page
          displays.

Click Administration in the left navigation menu, select the environment you
          want to create a virtual cluster in.
In the Virtual Clusters column, click
         at the top right to create a new virtual
          cluster.If the environment has no virtual clusters
          associated with it, the page displays a Create DE
            Cluster button that launches the same
            wizard.Enter a Cluster Name.Cluster names must include the following:
Begin with a letter
Be between 3 and 30 characters (inclusive)
Contain only alphanumeric characters and hyphens
Select the CDE Service to create the
          virtual cluster in.The environment you selected before
          launching the wizard is selected by default, but you can use the
          wizard to create a virtual cluster in a different CDE
        service.
Select one of the following CDE cluster types: 


Core (Tier 1): Batch-based transformation and engineering
              options include:
Autoscaling Cluster
Spot Instances
SDX/Lakehouse
Job Lifecycle
Monitoring
Workflow Orchestration

All Purpose (Tier 2) - Develop using interactive sessions and
              deploy both batch and streaming workloads. This option includes all options in Tier 1
              with the following:
Shell Sessions - CLI and Web
JDBC/SparkSQL (Coming soon)
IDE (Coming Soon)




In Capacity (Technical Preview), specify the guaranted and the
          maximum number of CPU cores and Memory in gigabytes to configure elastic quota. The
          cluster can utilize resources upto the maximum set capacity to run the submitted Spark
          applications.
You can get a minimum guaranteed and maximum capacity of resources (CPU
            and memory) using guaranteed quota and maximum quota. The guaranteed quota dictates the
            minimum amount of resources available for allocation for a VC at all times. The
            resources above the guaranteed quota and within the VC’s maximum quota can be used by
            any VC on demand if the cluster capacity allows for it. Elastic quotas
            allow the VC to acquire unused capacity in the cluster when their guaranteed quota limit
            gets exhausted. This ensures efficient use of resources in the cluster. At the same
            time, the maximum quota limits the threshold amount of resources a VC can claim in the
            cluster at any given time.For information about configuring resource pool and
          capacity, see Managing cluster resources using Quota Management.
Select the Spark Version to use in the
          virtual cluster.Optional: 
Click Configure Email Alerting if you want to receive
          notification mails. Provide the following email configuration information:


Sender email address. 
Your mail server hostname and port. 
The username and password of the email user who will be logged into the mail server
              as the sender of the alert emails. 
Select a secure connection method to be used when communicating with the SMTP
              server. 
Click Test SMTP Configs  to test the configurations set for
              SMTP. This helps you to test the SMTP configuration before creating the cluster.


Click Create.
On the CDE Home page, select the environment to view the virtual
      cluster initialization status. You can also click the three-dot menu for the virtual cluster
      to view the logs. 

You must initialize each virtual cluster you create and configure users before creating
        jobs.
Cloudera Data Engineering provides a suite of example jobs with a combination of Spark and
        Airflow jobs, which include scenarios such as reading and writing from object storage,
        running an Airflow DAG, and expanding on Python capabilities with custom virtual
        environments. For information about running example jobs, see CDE example jobs and
          sample data.


Related informationCDE example jobs and sample data
            Resource scheduling and management
            