What are Parameter Providers?Cloudera Docs
What are Parameter Providers?
Parameter Providers is a new extension point that is added to the existing NiFi
  Parameter Context feature that can help to populate flow parameters on demand. Learn the features
  associated with Parameter Providers and how you can use them in your NiFi environment.
You can create Parameter Contexts from Parameters fetched from an external source. Using
   Parameter Providers allows automatic creation of Parameter Contexts from external sources, for
   example file-based Kubernetes secrets, environment variables, or HashiCorp Vault secrets
   engines.
Parameter Providers:

Provide a feature in the Controller Settings that enable you to generate Parameter Contexts
    from external sources.
Enable you to keep your provided Parameter Contexts up to date with the external source by
    running a Fetch Parameters operation.
Provide an extension point for developing new custom Parameter Providers that can be deployed
    in a NiFi Archive (NAR).
Provide a CLI command, nifi fetch-params, to fetch and apply parameters,
    allowing a scripted approach to keep Parameter Contexts up to date.

Parameter values are stored (encrypted, if sensitive) inside the flow. Parameter Providers are
   a mechanism that automate the creation of Parameter Contexts and facilitate keeping them updated.
   They do not replace the framework mechanism to resolve parameter values during
   Processor/Controller Service execution and they do not pull parameters directly from the external
   source at the time of usage in the flow.
noteParameter Providers do not have an automatic mechanism to refresh
   parameter values from the NiFi UI. Fetching and applying parameters is a potentially disruptive
   operation, since it can involve stopping and starting large portions of the flow. This kind of
   activity could be scripted using the CLI command fetch-params, but should be
   done with the potential for flow disruption in mind.
For more information about Parameter Contexts, see Parameter Contexts in the Apache NiFi
    User Guide.

Related informationParameter Contexts, Apache NiFi User Guide