Creating a Parameter Context from a Parameter GroupCloudera Docs
Creating a Parameter Context from a Parameter Group
Learn how to create a Parameter Context from a Parameter Group that stores Parameters
        fetched from an external source using a Parameter Provider.
You must have fetched parameters from an external source. See Fetching Parameters.

Select Controller Settings from the top-right
                        Global menu in the NiFi UI.
The NiFi Settings dialog opens.

Go to the PARAMETER PROVIDERS tab.

Click the Fetch Parameters (down arrow) icon of
                        FileParameterProvider.
The Fetch Parameters dialog opens. 

Select Create Parameter Context.


A star appears next to the parameters Parameter
                            Group. The star indicates that the Parameter Group has an associated
                            Parameter Context.
Checkboxes appear next to the Parameter names.
The Parameter Context Name field appears.Enter
                                a name for your Parameter Context. In this example, it is
                                    My Parameters.






Select the Parameters that you want to set as sensitive.
In this example, only the sys.admin.password Parameter
                    needs to be set to sensitive. 

Click APPLY to create the Parameter Context.

Click Close in the Fetch
                        Parameters dialog.



The newly created Parameter Context appears under the
                        SETTINGS tab of the Configure Parameter
                        Provider dialog.
The Parameters appear under the PARAMETERS tab of the
                        Update Parameter Context dialog. Only the values of
                    the non-sensitive Parameters can be read. The Parameters cannot be edited. The
                    Parameter Provider can add, remove, or update Parameters in this Parameter
                    Context.




You can view the new Parameter Context in the NiFi Parameter
                        Contexts list by clicking its name.
You can view the details of the Parameter Context in the Update
                        Parameter Context dialog by clicking .
You can return to the NiFi Settings by clicking the right
                    arrow icon in the listing.



Related informationCreating a Parameter Context from a Parameter GroupWhat is Parameter Context inheritence?Parent topic: Example for using Parameter Providers