Configuring Delegation for ClientsCloudera Docs
Configuring Delegation for Clients
Impala supports user and group delegation for client
    connections.

When users submit Impala queries through a separate application, such
        as Hue or a business intelligence tool, typically all requests are
        treated as coming from the same user. Impala supports delegation
        where users whose names you specify can delegate the execution of a
        query to another user. The query runs with the privileges of the
        delegated user, not the original authenticated user. 
You also have an option to delegate using groups. Instead of listing a
        large number of delegated users, you can create a group of those users
        and specify the delegated group name in the Impalad startup option. The
        client sends the delegated user name, and Impala performs an
        authorization to see if the delegated user belongs to a delegated group. 
 The name of the delegated user is passed using the HiveServer2
        protocol configuration property impala.doas.user when
        the client connects to Impala. 
 When the client connects over HTTP, the doAs
        parameter can be specified in the HTTP path. For
        example:/?doAs=delegated_user
 Currently, the delegation feature is available only for Impala queries
        submitted through application interfaces such as Hue and BI tools. For
        example, Impala cannot issue queries using the privileges of the HDFS
        user. 
note

 When the delegation is enabled in Impala, the Impala clients
            should take an extra caution to prevent unauthorized access for the
            delegate-able users. 
 Impala requires Apache Ranger on the cluster to enable
            delegation. Without Ranger installed, the delegation feature will
            fail with the following error: User user1 is not authorized
            to delegate to user2. User/group delegation is disabled. 



 To enable delegation: 
In Cloudera Manager, navigate to
              Clusters > Impala.In the Configuration tab, click
            Impala-1 (Service-Wide) in the Scope and
          click Security in the Category. In the Proxy User Configuration field,
          type the a semicolon-separated list of key=value pairs of authorized
          proxy users to the user(s) they can impersonate. The list
          of delegated users are delimited with a comma, e.g. hue=user1, user2.
         In the Proxy Group Configuration field,
          type the a semicolon-separated list of key=value pairs of authorized
          proxy users to the group(s) they can impersonate. 
The list of delegated groups are delimited with a comma, e.g.
          hue=group1, group2. Click Save Changes and restart the
          Impala service.

