Setting the Idle Query and Idle Session TimeoutsCloudera Docs
Setting the Idle Query and Idle Session Timeouts
To keep long-running queries or idle sessions from tying up cluster
    resources, you can set timeout intervals for both individual queries, and
    entire sessions.





In Cloudera Manager, navigate to Impala
              service > Configuration.In the search field, type
        idle.In the Idle Query Timeout field, specify
          the time in seconds after which an idle query is cancelled.
This could be a query whose results were all fetched but was never
            closed, or one whose results were partially fetched and then the
            client program stopped requesting further results. This condition is
            most likely to occur in a client program using the JDBC or ODBC
            interfaces, rather than in the interactive
              impala-shell interpreter. Once a query is
            cancelled, the client program cannot retrieve any further results
            from the query. 
 You can reduce the idle query timeout by using the
              QUERY_TIMEOUT_S query option at the query level.
            Any non-zero value specified in this field serves as an upper limit
            for the QUERY_TIMEOUT_S query option.
 The value of 0 disables query timeouts. 
In the Idle Session Timeout field,
          specify the time in seconds after which an idle session expires.
 A session is idle when no activity is occurring for any of the
            queries in that session, and the session has not started any new
            queries. Once a session is expired, you cannot issue any new query
            requests to it. The session remains open, but the only operation you
            can perform is to close it. 
 The default value of 0 specifies sessions never expire. 
 You can override this setting with the
              IDLE_SESSION_TIMEOUT query option at the session
            or query level.
Click Save Changes and restart
          Impala.

Impala checks periodically for idle sessions
      and queries to cancel. The actual idle time before cancellation might be
      up to 50% greater than the specified configuration setting. For example,
      if the timeout setting was 60, the session or query might be cancelled
      after being idle between 60 and 90 seconds. 

Parent topic: Setting Timeouts in Impala