Shut Down ImpalaCloudera Docs
Shut Down Impala
Explains how to gracefully shut down Impala Daemons by first allowing running queries
    a specified amount of time to complete the process.

The flow to gracefully shut down an Impala Daemon is as follows:
The shutdown is initiated.
The grace period starts. The Impala Daemon informs other
            coordinators not to schedule any new queries on it. This allows
            queries already scheduled to run on this daemon by other
            coordinators to start executing.
The grace period expires.
The Impala Daemon continuously checks if there are no queries or
            fragments running.
If there are no queries or fragments running, it shuts down.
Otherwise, when it reaches the
              IMPALA_GRACEFUL_SHUTDOWN_DEADLINE duration,
            Impala Daemon shuts down.

Once Cloudera Manager initiates the stop/shutdown command, the Impala
        Daemon starts up the graceful shutdown process, and the process cannot
        be reverted. However, if you need to change the hard deadline in
        Cloudera Manager, you can cancel the shutdown command, change the
          Impala Daemon Graceful Shutdown, and start the
        shutdown command again.

Optionally, set the grace period.
In Cloudera Manager, navigate to
                  Impala
                  Service > Configuration > Scope > Impala
                  Daemon.
In the Impala Daemon Command Line Argument
                Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) field,
              specify the grace period:
                  --shutdown_grace_period_s=<new grace
                  period in seconds>The default grace period is 2
              minutes.It is strongly recommended that you use the
              default value and not change the setting.

Optionally, set the hard deadline after which Impala is shut down
          regardless of whether queries are still running on it.
In Cloudera Manager, navigate to
                  Impala
                  Service > Configuration > Scope > Impala
                  Daemon.
In the Impala Graceful Shutdown
                Deadline field, specify the time to wait for running
              queries.The default is 60 minutes. If you
              specify 0, Impala will shutdown immediately without waiting for
              running queries
In Cloudera Manager, navigate to Impala
              Service > Instances.Click an Impala Daemon role.Click
              Actions > Impala
              Daemon Graceful Shutdown.

Related informationSHUTDOWN statement