Enable authorization for HDFS web UIsCloudera Docs
Enable authorization for HDFS web UIs
You can enforce authorization for the following HDFS web UIs: the NameNode, DataNode,
        and JournalNode. 
You must have Kerberos authentication for HTTP web consoles
            and Hadoop Secure Authorization enabled. When both configurations are set, only the
                hdfs user can access the HDFS web UIs by default. Any other user
            who attempts to access the web UI will encounter an error because the user is not
            authorized to access the page. For users and groups other than hdfs
                to access the web UIs, you must add them to hdfs-site.xml with an
                    HDFS Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                    Valve).

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to Clusters > <HDFS service>.

Navigate to the Configurations tab and search for the
                    following property: HDFS Service Advanced
                        Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for hdfs-site.xml.

Add a value for the dfs.cluster.administrators property.
For example, a sample property might look like this:
Name:
dfs.cluster.administrators
Description: ACL for admins, this configuration
                            is used to control who can access the default servlets in the namenode
                            and so on. The value should be a comma separated list of users and
                            groups. The user list comes first and is separated by a space followed
                            by the group list. For example, user1,user2
                                group1,group2. Both users and groups are optional. So
                                "user1", " group1",
                            "", "user1 group1", "user1,user2
                                group1,group2" are all valid. You must note the leading
                            space in " group1". '*'
                            grants access to all users and groups, for example, '',
                            ' ' and ' *'
                            are all valid.
These values would allow the users and groups to the following web UIs:
                        NameNode, DataNode, and JournalNode.noteYou can view the Service
                        Monitor Kerberos Principal by navigating to Cloudera Management Service > Configuration and searching for Role-Specific Kerberos Principal. 

Save the configuration. 

Restart all stale HDFS services.


Enable authorization for additional HDFS web UIsYou can enforce authorization for the following HDFS web UI servlets, which may         contain sensitive data: /jmx, /stack,             /conf, and /metrics. When you enforce authorization         for the servlets, only the users listed in the dfs.cluster.administrators         property can access them.Configuring HSTS for HDFS Web UIsConfiguring the HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) for HDFS ensures that a web         browser does not load the service information using HTTP. Additionally, all attempts to load         the information using HTTP will automatically be converted to HTTPS. 