Creating a connector using Kafka Connect in SMMCloudera Docs
Creating a connector using Kafka Connect in SMM
Learn how to create a connector through Kafka Connect in your cluster.

Perform the following steps to create a connector:


Click the New Connector option in the upper right corner
                    of the Connect Cluster page.
The Select A Template page appears. This page contains all
                    connectors available for deployment in the form of selectable cards. Source and
                    sink connectors are grouped in their respective tabs. By default, this page
                    displays the connectors shipped in CDP. If you have previously installed
                    additional connectors, they will also be visible on this page. noteFor more information regarding each connector shipped
                        in CDP, as well as instructions on how to install additional connectors, see
                            Connectors in the Kafka Connect documentation.
                        Additionally, see Streams Messaging Reference for a
                        comprehensive list of the properties available for each
                        connector.



Select a connector from the Source Templates or
                        Sink Templates tab.
The Connector Form appears.



Configure the properties of the connector.
For more details about the options in the Connector
                        Form section, see Configuring Connector
                    Form.







Optional: 
Click Import Connector Configuration to import
                    configurations for a connector.
For more information about how to import connector configuration, see
                        Importing connector configuration.
The Import Connector Config... dialog appears.



Import your connector configurations and then click
                        Validate.
For more information on validation of connector configurations, see
                        Validating connector configurations.
Error messages might appear next to the properties where the validator found
                    errors.

Resolve the errors until validation passes, and then click
                        Next.
The Configuration Review page appears.



Review your connector configuration and click
                    Deploy.
The Deploying Connector dialog appears.



Click View Connector Profile.
The Connector Profile page appears where you can view your
                    connector details.


Related informationConnectorsStreams Messaging ReferenceConfiguring connector formLearn how to configure connector properties in the Connector Form.Importing connector configurationLearn how to import your connector configuration.Validating connector configurationLearn how to validate your connector configuration.