Introduction to Kafka Connect in SMMCloudera Docs
Introduction to Kafka Connect in SMM
Get started with Kafka Connect in SMM.
Kafka Connect is a tool for streaming data between Apache Kafka
        and other systems in a reliable and scalable fashion. Kafka Connect makes it simple to
        quickly define connectors that move large collections of data into and out of Kafka. Source
        connectors can ingest entire databases or collect metrics from all your application servers
        into Kafka topics, making the data available for stream processing with low latency. Sink
        connectors can deliver data from Kafka topics into secondary storage and query systems or
        into batch systems for offline analysis.
Kafka Connect in CDP is shipped with many different
        Cloudera developed as well as publicly available sink and source connectors. Each of which
        cover a specific use case for streaming data. In addition to the connectors available by
        default, installing custom developed or third-party connectors is also possible. All
        connectors can be deployed, managed, and monitored using the Streams Messaging Manager UI
        (recommended), Streams Messaging Manager REST API, or Kafka Connect REST API.
For a comprehensive list of connectors shipped in CDP, see Connectors.

Related informationConnectors
Default view of Kafka Connect in the SMM UI
Learn where the Kafka Connect option lies in the SMM UI and what are the different
    options that you can use while connecting Kafka with external systems.
After you configure Kafka Connect in SMM, you can see the Connect option
      in the SMM UI.


When you click the Connect option, the Connect Cluster
      page appears.



The Connect Cluster page shows the connector and cluster
          details.At the top-right corner of the Connect Cluster
          page, you can see the name of the cluster.The New
            Connector option below the cluster name enables you to create connectors in
          your cluster.In the Connectors section, you can
          view the number of total connectors, running connectors, failed connectors, degraded
          connectors, and paused connectors.In the
            Connectors tab, you can view details of the source connectors,
          topics, and sink connectors in the cluster. The Source Connectors
          and Sink Connectors sections show all, running, paused, and failed
          connectors with connector name and associated task details. Both Source
            Connectors and Sink Connectors sections contain a
            Search option that enables you to search for particular connector
          details. The Topics section shows the Kafka topic names where data
          is read from or written to. For more details on connectors, see the Monitoring
            Connectors section.In the Cluster Profile tab, you can
        view details of the cluster and workers. For more details on cluster profile, see the
          Monitoring Cluster Profile section.




Related informationMonitoring ConnectorsMonitoring Cluster Profile