Planning Capacity Using WXMCloudera Docs
Planning Capacity Using WXM
You can generate a capacity plan for your target environment using WXM if you have it
  deployed in your environment. To build a custom cloud environment that meets your capacity
  requirements you must analyze your existing CDH architecture, understand your business needs, and
  generate a capacity plan.
There might be differences in how you should size your impala compute clusters (either in
   Datahub or in CDW service) because the compute node sizes (CPU and RAM) are  different than what
   you are currently using in CDH. If you are currently using a 20 node CDH cluster, it does not
   necessarily mean that you will need a 20 node Datahub cluster or a 20 node Impala virtual
   warehouse in CDW.
Using WXM Functionality to Generate a Capacity Plan
Benefits of using WXM

You can explore your cluster and analyze your workload before migrating the data. You can also
      identify Impala workloads that are good candidates for cloud migration.
You also have the provision to optimize your workload before migrating them to CDP Public
      Cloud. This  mitigates the risk of run-away costs in the cloud due to suboptimal
      workloads.
You can generate a cloud-friendliness score for your workload to be migrated.
You have an option to auto-generate capacity for your target environment.
WXM in conjunction with the Replication manager automates the replication plan.


Prerequisites to Use WXM
Before you  set up Cloudera Manager Telemetry Publisher service to send diagnostic
    data to Workload XM, you must  ensure you have the correct versions of Cloudera Manager and
    CDH.
To use Workload XM with CDH clusters managed by Cloudera Manager, you must have the
    following versions:
For CDH 5.x clusters:
Cloudera Manager version 5.15.1 or later
CDH version 5.8 or later

For CDH 6.x clusters:
Cloudera Manager version 6.1 or later
CDH version 6.1 or later


noteWorkload XM is not available on Cloudera Manager 6.0 whether you are managing CDH 5.x or CDH
  6.x clusters.
After you have verified that you have the correct versions of Cloudera Manager and
    CDH, you must configure data redaction and your firewall. 
For information on configuring firewall, see Configuring a Firewall for Workload XM.
For information on redacting data before sending to WXM, see Redaction Capabilities for Diagnostic Data
Steps to Auto-generate Capacity Plan
If you have a Cloudera workload manager deployed in your environment, follow the high level
    steps to generate the capacity plan and migrate the Impala workload to the cloud. 
On the Cloudera workload manager page, choose a cluster to analyze your data
     warehouse workloads. The Summary page for your workload view contains several graphs and
     tabs you can view to analyze. Using the Workloads View feature you can analyze workloads
     with much finer granularity. For example, you can analyze how queries that access a particular
     database or that use a specific resource pool are performing against SLAs. Or you can examine
     how all the queries are performing that a specific user sends to your cluster.
On the Data Warehouse Workloads View page you can choose an Auto-generated Workload
     Views by clicking  Define New and choosing Select recommended views from the
     drop-down menu. Review the Criteria that are used to create the workload views, select the one
     from the auto-generated workload views that aligns with your requirements.
You can custom build the workload to be migrated by clicking on Define New and
     choosing Manually define view from the drop-down menu. You have the option to define a
     set of criteria that enables you to analyze a specific set of your workloads.
If you chose to custom build, once the custom build workload is generated, you are
       returned to the Data Warehouse Workloads page, where your workload appears in the
       list. Use the search bar to search for your workload and click on the workload to view the
       workload details.
The detail page for your workload view contains several graphs and tabs you can view to
     analyze. Review the workload and make sure that this is the workload you want to migrate to the
     cloud.
After you are satisfied with the workload you want to burst, click the Burst to
      Cloud option and select View Performance Rating Details.
Review the cloud performance rating details and make the call to proceed with the
     migration to cloud by clicking  Start Burst to Cloud Wizard.
Burst to Cloud wizard  walks you through the steps to generate the capacity plan and to
     replicate the workload you selected to the destination on the cloud.



