Impala Changes between CDH and CDPCloudera Docs
Impala Changes between CDH and CDP
There are some differences between Impala in CDH and Impala in CDP. These changes affect Impala after you migrate your
  workload from CDH 5.13-5.16 or CDH 6.1 or later to CDP Private Cloud Base or Public Cloud. Some of these
  differences require you to change your Impala scripts or workflow.
The version of Impala you used in CDH version 5.11 - 5.16 or 6.1 or later changes to Impala 3.4
   when you migrate the workload to CDP Private Cloud Base or Public Cloud.

Change location of DatafilesIf Impala managed tables are located on the HDFS in /user/hive/warehouse before the         migration, the tables, converted to external, remain there. The migration process sets the         hive.metastore.warehouse.dir property to this location, designating it the Hive warehouse         location. You can change the location of the warehouse using Cloudera         Manager.Set Storage Engine ACLsYou must be aware of  the steps to set ACLs for Impala to allow Impala to write to         the Hive Warehouse Directory.Automatic Invalidation/Refresh of Metadata To pick up new information when raw data is ingested into Tables you can use the     hms_event_polling_interval_s flag.Metadata ImprovementsIn CDP, all catalog metadata improvements are enabled by default. You may use these few     knobs to control how Impala manages its metadata to improve performance and     scalability.Default Managed TablesIn CDP, managed tables are transactional tables with the insert_only     property by default. You must be aware of the new default behavior of modifying file systems on     a managed table in CDP and the methods to switch to the old behavior.Automatic Refresh of Tables on Impala ClustersThe property enable_insert_events is used in CDP to refresh the tables     or partitions automatically on other Impala clusters when Impala inserts into a     table.Interoperability between Hive and ImpalaThis topic describes the changes made in CDP for the optimal interoperability   between Hive and Impala for the improved user experience.ORC Support Disabled for Full-Transactional Tables In  CDP 7.1.0 and earlier versions, ORC table support     is disabled for Impala queries. However, you have an option to switch to the CDH behavior by     using the command line argument ENABLE_ORC_SCANNER.Authorization Provider for ImpalaUsing the BDR service available in CDH you can migrate the permissions in CDP because   Ranger is the authorization provider instead of Sentry. You must be aware how Ranger enforces a   policy in CDP which may be different from using Sentry.Data Governance Support by AtlasBoth CDH and CDP environments support governance functionality for Impala operations.   When migrating your workload from CDH to CDP, you must migrate your Navigator metadata to Atlas   manually because there is no automatic migration of Navigator metadata from CDH to   CDP.