Authorization Provider for ImpalaCloudera Docs
Authorization Provider for Impala
Using the BDR service available in CDH you can migrate the permissions in CDP because
  Ranger is the authorization provider instead of Sentry. You must be aware how Ranger enforces a
  policy in CDP which may be different from using Sentry.
New behavior:

The CREATE ROLE, GRANT ROLE,
    SHOW ROLE statements are not supported as Ranger
    currently does not support roles.
When a particular resource is renamed, currently, the policy is not
    automatically transferred to the newly renamed resource.
SHOW GRANT with an invalid user/group does not
    return an error.

The following table lists the different access type requirements to run SQL statements in
   Impala.


SQL Statement
Impala Access Requirement



DESCRIBE
view
VIEW_METADATA on the underlying tables


ALTER TABLE RENAMEALTER VIEW
       RENAME
ALL on the target table / viewALTER on the source table
       / view


SHOW DATABASESSHOW
       TABLES
VIEW_METADATA


where:


VIEW_METADATA privilege denotes the SELECT, INSERT, or REFRESH privileges.
ALL privilege denotes the SELECT, INSERT, CREATE, ALTER, DROP, and
      REFRESH privileges.

For more information on the minimum level of privileges and the scope required to run SQL
   statements in Impala, see Impala Authorization.
Migrating Sentry Policies
As CDP leverages Ranger as its authorization service, you must migrate permissions from Sentry
    to Ranger. You can use the BDR service available in CDH to migrate the permissions. This service
    migrates Sentry authorization policies into Ranger as a part of the replication policy job. When
    you create the replication policy, choose the resources that you want to migrate and the Sentry
    policies are migrated for those resources. You can migrate all permissions or permissions on a
    set of objects to Ranger.
The Sentry Permissions section of the Create Replication Policy wizard contains the following
    options:

Include Sentry Permissions with Metadata - Select this to migrate Sentry permissions
     during the replication job.
Exclude Sentry Permissions from Metadata - Select this if you do not want to migrate
     Sentry permissions during the replication job.

The Replication Option section of the Create Replication Policy wizard contains the following
    options:

Include Metadata and Data
Include Metadata Only


Stages of Migration
Sentry and Ranger have different permission models. Sentry permissions are granted to roles
    and users. These are translated to permissions for groups and users since Ranger currently does
    not support roles. This is followed by grouping by resource because Ranger policies are grouped
    by resource. All the permissions that are granted to a resource are considered a single Ranger
    policy. 
The migration of Sentry policies into Ranger is performed in the following operations:

Export - The export operation runs in the source cluster. During this operation, the
     Sentry permissions are fetched and exported to a JSON file. This file might be in a local file
     system or HDFS or S3, based on the configuration that you provided.
Translate and Ingest - These operations take place on the target cluster. In the
     translate operation, Sentry permissions are translated into a format that can be read by
     Ranger. The permissions are then imported into Ranger. When the permissions are imported, they
     are tagged with the source cluster name and the time that the ingest took place. After the
     import, the file containing the permissions is deleted.

Because there is no one-to-one mapping between Sentry privileges and Ranger service policies,
    the Sentry privileges are translated into their equivalents within Ranger service policies. For
    more information on how Sentry actions is applied to the corresponding action in Ranger, see
     Sentry to Ranger Permissions.
noteBecause the authorization model in Ranger is different from Sentry's model, not all policies can be migrated using BDR. For certain resources you must
    manually create the permissions after migrating the workload from CDH to CDP.


Parent topic: Impala Changes between CDH and CDP