Data Governance Support by AtlasCloudera Docs
Data Governance Support by Atlas
Both CDH and CDP environments support governance functionality for Impala operations.
  When migrating your workload from CDH to CDP, you must migrate your Navigator metadata to Atlas
  manually because there is no automatic migration of Navigator metadata from CDH to
  CDP.
The two environments collect similar
   information to describe Impala activities, including:


Audits for Impala access requests
Metadata describing Impala queries
Metadata describing any new data assets created or updated by
     Impala operations


The services that support these operations are different in the two environments. Functionality
   is distributed across services as follows:

Feature
CDH
CDP



Auditing






Access requests


Audit tab in Navigator console
Audit page in Ranger console




Service operations that create or update metadata catalog entries


Audit tab in Navigator console
Audit tab for each entity in Atlas dashboard




Service operations in general


Audit tab in Navigator console
No other audits collected.


Metadata Catalog






Impala operations: 
CREATE TABLE AS SELECT
CREATE VIEW
ALTER VIEW AS SELECT
INSERT INTO
INSERT
OVERWRITE



Process and Process Execution entitiesColumn- and table-level
         lineage
Process and Process Execution entitiesColumn- and table-level
         lineage


Migrating Navigator content to Atlas
As part of migrating your workload from CDH to CDP, you must use Atlas as the Cloudera
    Navigator Data Management for your cluster in CDP. You can choose to migrate your Navigator
    metadata to Atlas manually because there is no automatic migration of Navigator metadata from
    CDH to CDP. Atlas 'rebuilds' the metadata for existing cluster assets and lineage using new
    operations. However Navigator Managed metadata tags and any metadata you manually entered in CDH
    must be manually ported to Atlas Business Metadata Tags. If you have applications that are using
    the Navigator, you must port them to use Atlas APIs. 
noteNavigator Audit information is not ported. To keep legacy audit information you can keep a
     "read-only" Navigator instance until it is no longer needed. You may need to upgrade
     CM/Navigator on your legacy cluster to a newer version to avoid EOL.

    Migrating content from Navigator to Atlas involves 3 steps:

extracting the content from Navigator
transforming that content into a form Atlas can consume
importing the content into Atlas



Parent topic: Impala Changes between CDH and CDP