



Summary of Security Best Practices | 1.0 | Cloudera Documentation











































 Documentation


Products
Services & Support
Solutions













Security on AWS: Best Practices








View All Categories

Cloudera Enterprise in the Cloud
Cloudera SDX for Altus: Best Practices and Supported Configuration
Data Engineering on AWS: Best Practices
Data Warehouse on AWS: Best Practices
Operational Database on AWS: Best Practices
Security on AWS: Best Practices

Summary of Security Best Practices


Get Started with Amazon S3





To read this documentation, you must turn JavaScript on.




Summary of Security Best Practices


This page summarizes the recommendations made in Security on AWS: Best
Practices:

Basics
Networking (Setting Up the VPC)
Transient Cluster, Users with Same Privileges
Persistent Clusters, Users with Different Privileges




Basics

Your organization’s Amazon Web Services account is the root account. Amazon recommends creating a user in IAM (AWS Identity and Access Management) and then creating the VPC under that user’s identity
for your clusters, rather than using the root account. Here are some other tips:

Evaluate your cluster’s security regularly. Visit the Cloudera Security Bulletins page and the Cloudera Community to find out about known security issues.
Change any and all default passwords throughout the system after it has been set up and before putting into production.


Fastpath: Most all Amazon Web Services set up tasks start from the AWS
Management Console.



Networking (Setting Up the VPC)


Set up a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) on Amazon into which to create an Amazon EC2 instance and deploy your Cloudera cluster.
Create a VPN (virtual private network) from your on-premises
network to your VPC. Amazon offers several choices, so use the one that makes most sense for the type of deployment.

Use AWS Direct Connect for a permanent connection between your
organization’s network and your Amazon VPC. Direct Connect requires coordination between your organization and Amazon, but is most secure and extends your corporate network into the Amazon cloud. If
you want to federate your on-premises Active Directory instance with authentication in the Amazon cloud, use AWS Direct Connect as your VPN.


Create at least two subnets in the VPC, one private, one public.
Create two different security groups in the VPC:

Create one security group for the edge node (or nodes) that will support the gateway roles of the cluster, for example, YARN gateway, Flume gateway, and so on. Use public IP addresses
(create a public subnet) for the edge node to provide external access to the cluster.
Create another security group for the other nodes in the cluster. Use private IP addresses and configure the security group to allow outbound access for all protocols.


Use a private IP address (an address from the range of your VPC’s private subnet) for Cloudera Manager Server.
Create a persistent EC2 instance for Altus Director
server. Altus Director is used to instantiate and control other EC2 instances in this VPC.
Assign public IP addresses to the gateway node in
the cluster (the node configured with various gateway roles, which provide client access to cluster functionality). For example, the gateway node includes HDFS, Hive, Spark 2 on YARN, and YARN
gateway role instances.




Transient Cluster, Users with Same Privileges

These recommendations apply mostly to transient clusters and also to any cluster that has no need for granular user permissions or auditing. Assuming all users can have equivalent
privileges on the cluster:


Identity, Authentication, and Authorization

When all users can have equivalent privileges to launch a cluster and run a particular workload, especially for transient single-user clusters, using Amazon Identity and Access Management (IAM) takes care of identity, authentication, and authorization from a single service:

Using the Amazon AWS Console, create an IAM role and configure that role with the permissions needed to
create the necessary EC2 instances in the VPC.
Give this IAM role access to the necessary Amazon S3 bucket.
In the VPC configuration, give this IAM role access to the edge security group so that it can launch the EC2 instances when needed.
Give each user group its own Altus Director instance and grant permissions to the
IAM role to use Director and create clusters.




Encryption (Data at Rest)

The data at rest encryption mechanisms depend on the type of storage, as follows:


Amazon S3 Data


For Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), use Amazon’s server-side encryption using S3-managed encryption keys (SSE-S3) or using SSE-KMS. For SSE-KMS, you must also use Amazon’s AWS Key Management Service.




Amazon EBS Data


Use Amazon’s AWS Key Management Service to create encryption keys and specify that want an
encrypted EBS volume (using that key) when you create the volume. See Amazon’s Amazon EBS
Encryption and How Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) Uses AWS KMS for more
information.




HDFS Storage


Use native HDFS Transparent Encryption (aka, HDFS Data
At Rest Encryption) for client-side transparent end-to-end data encryption for HDFS data.






Persistent Clusters, Users with Different Privileges

These recommendations assume that your organization has Microsoft Active Directory (or other LDAP-compliant directory service) and that you want to leverage the user identity as well as
the authentication services available (Kerberos, Active Directory).


Identity


Use your organization’s Microsoft Active Directory or other LDAP-compliant directory service as the basis for identity and authentication.
Integrate the local hosts’ UIDs to the LDAP identity with Linux SSSD (System Security Services daemon), Centrify, or FreeIPA (Identity, Policy, and Audit).




Authentication


Use Kerberos (Microsoft Active Directory, MIT Kerberos) for internal authentication among the nodes and services in the cluster, and for end-user authentication.




Authorization


Use Sentry to set role-based access controls on Apache Hive, Apache Solr, and Apache Impala data, and to Hive table data stored in HDFS. Currently, Sentry controls are applied on a
per-cluster basis.




Encryption

Encryption needs to be applied to both data in transit and data at rest. Data at rest encryption protects data stored within the cluster.



Encryption (Data in Transit)

Data in transit encrypts network communications between nodes in the cluster and between all the endpoints that need to connect to the cluster. Cloudera clusters use industry standard
TLS/SSL to encrypt network communications between RPC client and server processes and between Web components (HTTP/S for browser-based access to Cloudera Manager Admin Console, for example).

Obtain and install certificates (X.509) for all hosts (EC2 instances) that comprise the cluster, for encrypted communications among the nodes in the cluster




Encryption (Data at Rest)

Encryption mechanisms vary, depending on where the data is stored.

To manage your own encryption keys, outside Amazon Web Services, use a persistent cluster with local storage (the EC2 instance storage) and manage the cluster using Cloudera Manager
rather than Altus Director.



Amazon S3 Data


Use Amazon server-side encryption (SSE-S3).




HDFS Storage


Use Transparent Encryption.





Auditing


Use Cloudera Navigator to track the logs on your Amazon S3 buckets.





Categories: AWS | Best Practices | Cloud | Security | Summary | All Categories



Security on AWS: Best Practices


Get Started with Amazon S3


















About Cloudera
Resources
Contact
Careers
Press
Documentation

United States: +1 888 789 1488
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



© 2019 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.
If this documentation includes code, including but not limited to, code examples, Cloudera makes this available to you under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0, including any required
notices. A copy of the Apache License Version 2.0 can be found here.










Terms & Conditions  |  Privacy Policy

Page generated February 22, 2019.












