Using Ozone storage with Cloudera Data Warehouse Private CloudCloudera Docs
Using Ozone storage with Cloudera Data Warehouse Private Cloud
Apache Ozone is an object store available on the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster which
  enables you to optimize storage for big data workloads. You can query data residing on Ozone using
  Hive or Impala from Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Data Service on Private Cloud.
Apache Ozone DataNodes support storage density up to 400 TB, unlike HDFS DataNodes which
      support storage density only up to 100 TB. Apart from the ability to scale to billions of
      objects or files of varying sizes, applications that use frameworks like Apache Spark, Impala,
      Apache YARN, and Apache Hive work natively on Ozone without any modifications.
Supported use cases
Ozone filesystem (OFS) is best suited for Hive and Impala in the following use cases:
To retain HDFS IO performance and other characteristics critical for big data use
            cases.
Recommended in an environment with dense nodes using up to 400 TB per node.
To scale linearly and handle a large number of files and data.
Recommended with Hadoop and S3 workloads.
Recommended with native API, fast IO scans, streaming reads, and writes.
Locality based on network topology (storage separate or together with compute).
Object-level rename in a bucket.


Advantages
OFS offers the following operational advantages:
Ability to share physical storage and nodes with HDFS.
Designed for easy Node-addition, deletion, and decommission for repair.
Has a security model similar to HDFS.
Supports Kerberos authentication.
Supports Data encryption at rest and in flight.
Supports Ranger Authorization.



Related informationBlog: Apache Ozone and Dense Data NodesSetting up Ozone on the CDP Base clusterTo access and use Ozone from Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) data service on Private         Cloud, you must add and configure the Ozone service on the base cluster.Configuring the Database Catalog to access the Ozone filesystemAfter adding and configuring the Ozone service on the base cluster, creating buckets,     and granting Ranger KMS policies to the users, you must configure the Hive MetaStore warehouse     directories in the Database Catalog to point to the Ozone filesystem.Creating a Virtual Warehouse and creating tables on OzoneAfter you configure the Database Catalog to point to the Ozone filesystem, verify         that the Hive and Impala Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) carry the right         configurations, and then you can managing databases and tables residing in Ozone using Hue         or other SQL clients.