Refreshing environments, Database Catalog, and Virtual Warehouses in CDW Private CloudCloudera Docs
Refreshing environments, Database Catalog, and Virtual Warehouses in CDW Private
    Cloud
Learn when to refresh environments, Database Catalog, and Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera
    Data Warehouse (CDW) on Private Cloud and understand the difference between the refresh and
    rebuild operations.
Where is the refresh option in CDW?
The Refresh option is available in the more options () menu at
    the Environment, Database Catalog, and Virtual Warehouse levels.

When to use the refresh option?
You must refresh the environment, Database Catalog, and Virtual Warehouses in this order after
        completing the following actions:
Adding or updating CA certificates in the Management Console
Modifying LDAP server configurations in the Management Console
Adding, updating, or deleting LDAP users
Adding, updating, or deleting user groups and admin groups in the Management
            Console
Updating database settings such as host, port, database name, username, and password
            in the Management Console
Changing the configurations for Ozone, Hadoop, Hive, Impala, Ranger, and Atlas on the
            CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. This is true only if you have allowed CDW to receive
            configurations from the base cluster.noteIf you change any
              Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse configuration on the CDW web interface, then
              these configurations are not overwritten with the configurations from the base cluster
              even after you refresh the Virtual Warehosue.
Enabling or disabling the following options from the CDW Advanced
              Settings page:
Enable ADLS as a storage provider
Enable S3 and S3-compatible object store providers
Store logs on HDFS
Enable warehouse-level access control for Impala
Copy configurations from base cluster to CDW
Enable workload-aware autoscaling for Impala



Difference between refresh and rebuild
The Refresh option can be used to apply configuration changes listed in
        this topic. Refreshing an environment, a Database Catalog, or Virtual Warehouses does not
        change the runtime version. The Rebuild option is displayed only on
        the Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouse tiles. When you rebuild a Database Catalog or a
        Virtual Warehouse, CDW upgrades the Helm charts and the runtime version (if available), and
        also applies any configurations that may have changed on the base cluster or in the Control
        Plane service. The Rebuild operation is a superset of the Refresh
        operation.


Related informationRebuilding a Database CatalogRebuilding Virtual Warehouses