Upgrading Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in CDW Private CloudCloudera Docs
Upgrading Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in CDW Private Cloud
After you upgrade the CDP Private Cloud Data Services platform, you
    must upgrade the Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW).
    Upgrading to the latest release brings you new features from Hive, Impala, Hue, and other
    related runtime services. This is known as an in-place upgrade.
What gets upgraded
Database Catalog in CDW uses a Hive MetaStore (HMS) instance. The Virtual Warehouses use
        Apache Hive, Apache Impala, and Hue runtime images that are used in CDW. These runtime
        images are different than those used on CDP Private Cloud Base. With every new CDP Private Cloud Data Services release, you get a new version of Apache
        Hive, Apache Impala, and Hue runtimes with CDW, which includes new features and fixes.

Supported upgrade path for an in-place upgrade
In-place upgrade option is available only for upgrades from CDP Private Cloud Data Services 1.5.0 to a newer release.

What you should know before you upgrade
Review the Release Notes to learn about the new features,
        fixes, and known issues in this release, and more importantly, the upgrade-related known issues.

In-place upgrade steps
To perform an in-place upgrade:
Upgrade the CDP Private Cloud Data Services platform.
Log in to the Data Warehouse service as DWAdmin.
Upgrade the Database Catalog by clicking  > Upgrade.
Upgrade individual Virtual Warehouses by clicking  > Upgrade.

To verify a successful upgrade, check the version information on the Database Catalog or
        Virtual Warehouse details page by clicking  > Edit on the Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse tile.
noteIn CDW Private Cloud, you can upgrade Database Catalogs and
        Virtual Warehouses only to the latest available version.

What changes after the upgrade

Starting with 1.5.1, Data Analytics Studio (DAS) has been deprecated and completely
          removed from CDW. After you upgrade the platform, any running DAS instances will be
          removed from the cluster. Cloudera recommends that you use Hue for querying and exploring
          data in CDW.
If you upgrade the platform from 1.5.0 to the latest release, then the configuration of
          an existing environments stays the same as before. Configurations such as default file
          format, compression type, and transactional type are not copied from the base cluster. To
          copy configurations from the base cluster, you must reactivate the environment.


Guidelines for upgrading from 1.4.1
Cloudera recommends that you upgrade to 1.5.1, so that you can use the latest runtime
        version and avoid functional issues. In-place runtime upgrade option is not available in CDW
        if you are upgrading CDP Private Cloud Data Services from 1.4.1 to
        1.5.1. After upgrading the platform from 1.4.1, you must reactivate the environment in CDW
        and recreate Virtual Warehouses with the desired configurations.
The high-level steps for upgrading from 1.4.1 are as follows:
Note any custom configurations or settings that you have made in CDW.This is
              important because configurations are not preserved in this upgrade method.
Upgrade the CDP Private Cloud Data Services platform to
            1.5.1.
Log in to the Data Warehouse service as DWAdmin.
Deactivate the environment in CDW.
Reactivate the environment in CDW.
Create Virtual Warehouses with your desired configuration.

noteIf you upgrade the platform from 1.4.1 to 1.5.1,
        but you do not deactivate and reactivate your environment in CDW, you cannot create new
        Virtual Warehouses. Hue also stops working. However, existing Virtual Warehouses continue to
        operate using the existing runtime version and you can query data using SQL clients such as
        Beeline, impala-shell, or any other JDBC/ODBC client tools.


Related informationRuntime component versions for Cloudera Data Warehouse Private
                            CloudUpgrading CDP Private Cloud Data Services on Embedded Container
                            ServiceUpgrading CDP Private Cloud Data Services on OpenShift Container
                            PlatformActivating OpenShift environments on CDWActivating Embedded Container Service environments in
                            CDW