List of configurations copied from the base cluster to CDW on Private CloudCloudera Docs
List of configurations copied from the base cluster to CDW on Private Cloud
The Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) data service on Private Cloud has different
    configurations than the base cluster. When you activate an environment in CDW, configurations
    such as default file format, compression type, and transactional type are copied from the base
    cluster to CDW by default. This enables workload migration from base clusters to CDW data
    service. 
Understanding the scenarios in which the configurations are copied from base to CDW 
If you upgrade the platform from 1.5.0 to 1.5.1, for example, then the configuration of an
        existing environments stays the same as before. The configurations are not copied from the
        base cluster. To copy configurations from the base cluster, you must reactivate the
        environment.
On CDW environments that have received the base cluster configurations: If you change the
        configurations on the base cluster, refresh the Virtual Warehouse to obtain the updates
        base-cluster configurations by clicking  > Refresh on the Virtual Warehouse tile.
importantIf you change any Database Catalog or Virtual
        Warehouse configuration on the CDW web interface, then these configurations are not
        overwritten with the configurations from base cluster even after refreshing the Virtual
        Warehouse. 
The CDW web interface displays all the current configurations. If the Impala or the Hive on
        Tez service does not exist on the base cluster or, if the specific configuration is empty on
        the base cluster, then the default values from the Virtual Warehouse are used. 
If you do not want to use the base cluster configuration, then you can disable the
          Copy configurations from base cluster to CDW option from the Advanced Configurations > Advanced Settings page before activating the environment.
The following table provides the list of base cluster Impala configurations that are be
        copied to CDW upon activating the environment:Table 1. Base cluster configuration for Impala

Configuration category
Base cluster configuration
Description



Default query option
                  (default_query_options)
default_file_format
The default file format for the CREATE TABLE statement, for example Parquet.
                  The default value is Parquet.


default_transactional_type
The default transactional type, for example insert_only or
                    none. Creates insert-only ACID tables by default. Does not
                  apply to external tables. Default value is insert_only. 


timezone
Defines the timezone used for conversions between UTC and the local time. If
                  not set, Impala uses the system time zone where the coordinator Impalad runs. As
                  query options are not sent to the Coordinator immediately, the timezones are
                  validated only when the query runs.


parquet_array_resolution
Controls the behavior of the indexed-based resolution for nested arrays in
                  Parquet.


parquet_fallback_schema_resolution
Allows Impala to look up columns within Parquet files by column name, rather
                  than column order, when necessary. The allowed values are: POSITION
                    (0) and NAME (1).


allow_erasure_coded_files
Enables or disables the support for erasure coded files in Impala. The
                  default value is false. When set to false,
                  Impala returns an error when a query requires scanning an erasure coded
                  file.


max_row_size
Ensures that Impala can process rows of at least the specified size. Applies
                  when constructing intermediate or final rows in the result set. Used to prevent
                  out-of-control memory use when accessing columns containing huge strings.


compression_codec
The underlying compression for Parquet data files when Impala writes them
                  using the INSERT statement.


Startup option for Impala daemon (impalad)
fe_service_threads
Specifies the maximum number of concurrent client connections or threads
                  allowed to serve client requests. If this option is not set on the base cluster,
                  then the default value used is 96.Ensure that the value of this property is at
                    least 96. A lower value can degrade performance. 


Timeout options
idle_query_timeout
Sets the idle query timeout value for the session, in seconds. It is copied
                  from the base cluster if it is greater than 0. If this option is not set on the
                  base cluster, then the default value is 600.


idle_session_timeout
The time in seconds after which an idle session is cancelled. It is copied
                  from the base cluster if it is greater than 0. If this option is not set on the
                  base cluster, then the default value is 1200.


TLS/SSL version and ciphers
ssl_minimum_version
Controls the allowed versions of TLS/SSL used by Impala. Starting with Impala
                  4.0, the default value is tlsv1.2.


ssl_cipher_list
Used to specify the allowed set of TLS ciphers that are used by
                  Impala.


The following table provides the list of base cluster Hive on Tez configurations that are
        copied to CDW upon activating the environment:Table 2. Base cluster configuration for Hive on Tez

Base cluster configuration
Description



hive.create.as.insert.only
Used to specify whether the eligible tables should be created as ACID
                  insert-only tables by default. Does not apply to external tables that use storage
                  handlers. If this property is not set on the base cluster, then the default value
                  is true.


hive.create.as.acid
Used to specify whether the eligible tables should be created as full ACID
                  tables by default. Does not apply to external tables that use storage handlers. If
                  this property is not set on the base cluster, then the default value is
                    true.


hive.default.fileformat
The default file format for the CREATE TABLE statement. The default value is
                    TextFile.


hive.default.fileformat.managed
The default file format for the CREATE TABLE statement applied to the managed
                  tables only. External tables are created with default file format. The default
                  value is ORC.


hive.local.time.zone
Sets the timezone for displaying and interpreting time stamps. If the value
                  of this property is either set to LOCAL, is not specified, or is
                  an incorrect timezone, then the system default timezone is used. 


hive.external.table.purge.default
If set to true, it sets
                    external.table.purge=true on the newly created external tables,
                  which indicates that the table data should be deleted when the table is dropped.
                  If set to false, it maintains the existing behavior in which the
                  external tables do not delete data when the table is dropped.




