Querying, Filtering, and Visualizing DataCloudera Docs
Querying, Filtering, and Visualizing Data
You can interactively explore your data source data using the Metron dashboard. When CCP parses a telemetry, it extracts and normalizes different parts of the message into
         a standard Metron JSON object. Standardizing and normalizing field names and formats allows
         CCP to search different telemetry messages with a single query. You have access to every
         document in every index that matches your selected index patterns. The Metron dashboard
         enables you to submit search queries on the data source data, filter the search results,
         and view the results in a number of visualizations.In CCP, if telemetry indexing is
            enabled, a rotating index for every telemetry is created. By convention this index will
            have a name [telemetry_name]_[timestamp]. Telemetry documents indexed into this index
            will by convention be called [telemetry_name]_doc. Queries reference the document type
            of the indexed telemetries.For more information about exploring and analyzing
            your data, refer to the Kibana documentation:Table 1. Querying, Filtering, and Visualizing Data

Task
Description
Where to Look



Querying your data

You can search and refine the data you receive from your data source by
                           creating a query from the Discover page. You
                           should create and save a query for each data source not provided by
                           CCP.
CCP includes queries for the following telemetries:

YAF
Bro
Alerts (populated by Snort)

You can also add custom queries for new telemetry types.



Discovering Your Data




Filter your query results

You can use the Metron dashboard to filter your query results to further
                           refine the information. The Metron dashboard provides two types of
                           filters:

Time Filter

Restricts the search results to a specific time period.

Filter by Field

Filters to display only those documents that contain a
                                    particular value in a field. You can filter either from the
                                    Fields list or the Documents table.





Discover




Visualizing your data

You can filter search results to display only those documents that
                           contain a particular value in a field. You can also create negative
                           filters than exclude documents that contain the specified field
                           value.


Visualize



Parent topic: Customizing Your Metron Dashboard