Streaming Analytics clustersCloudera Docs
Streaming Analytics clusters
Learn about the default Streaming Analytics clusters, including cluster definition and
  template names, included services, and compatible Runtime version. 
Streaming Analytics offers real-time stream processing and stream analytics with low-latency
   and high scaling capabilities powered by Apache Flink.
Streaming Analytics templates include Apache Flink that works out of the box in stateless or
   heavy state environments. Beside Flink, the template includes its supporting services namely
   YARN, Zookeeper and HDFS. The Heavy Duty template comes preconfigured with RocksDB as state
   backend, while Light Duty clusters use the default Heap state backend. You can create your
   streaming application by choosing between Kafka, Kudu, and HBase as datastream connectors.
You can also use SQL to query real-time data with SQL Stream Builder (SSB) in the Streaming
   Analytics template. By supporting the SSB service in CDP Public Cloud, you can simply and easily
   declare expressions that filter, aggregate, route, and otherwise mutate streams of data. SSB is a
   job management interface that you can use to compose and run SQL on streams, as well as to create
   durable data APIs for the results.
note
Streaming Analytics clusters have distinct planning considerations and how-to information. See
    the Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub documentation for
    information about: 

Planning your Streaming Analytics cluster deployment
Creating your first Streaming Analytics cluster
Analyzing data using Apache Flink
Querying data using SQL Stream Builder



Cluster definition names



Streaming Analytics Light Duty for AWS 


Streaming Analytics Light Duty for Azure 


Streaming Analytics Light Duty for GCP 


Streaming Analytics Heavy Duty for AWS 


Streaming Analytics Heavy Duty for Azure 


Streaming Analytics Heavy Duty for GCP 



Cluster template name



7.2.17 - Streaming Analytics Light Duty


7.2.17 - Streaming Analytics Heavy Duty



Included services


Flink
SQL Stream Builder
YARN
Zookeeper
HDFS
KafkaimportantIn the Streaming Analytics cluster templates, Kafka service is
        included by default to serve as a background service only for the websocket ouput and
        sampling feature of SQL Stream Builder. The Kafka service in the Streaming Analytics cluster
        template cannot be used for production, you need to use the Streams Messaging cluster
        template when Kafka is needed for your deployment.


Compatible Runtime version


7.2.2
7.2.6
7.2.7
7.2.8
7.2.9
7.2.10
7.2.11
7.2.12
7.2.14
7.2.15
7.2.16
7.2.17




Related informationSetting up your Streaming Analytics clusterFlinkYARNZookeeperHDFSParent topic: Default cluster configurations