Cluster templates overviewCloudera Docs
Cluster templates overview
A cluster template is a declarative definition of a cluster that defines cluster
    topology (cluster host groups and all cluster services and their components running on them). 
A cluster template is a reusable cluster template in JSON format that can be used for
      creating multiple Data Hub clusters with identical Cloudera Runtime settings. It primarily
      defines the list of host groups and how components of various Cloudera Runtime services are
      distributed on these host groups. A cluster template allows you to specify stack, component
      layout, and configurations to materialize a cluster instance via Cloudera Manager REST API,
      without having to use the Cloudera Manager install wizard. After you provide the cluster
      template to Data Hub, the host groups in the JSON are mapped to a set of instances when
      starting the cluster, and the specified services and components are installed on the
      corresponding nodes.
note
A cluster template is not synonymous with a cluster definition, which primarily
        defines cloud provider settings. Each cluster definition must reference a specific cluster
        template.

Data Hub includes a few default cluster templates and allows you to upload your own cluster
      templates. 
Prior to creating your own cluster templates, we recommend that you review the default
      cluster templates to check if they meet your requirements. These default cluster templates can
      be accessed from Shared Resources > Cluster
          Templates. To view details of a cluster template, click on its
      name. For each cluster template, you can access a graphical representation ("list view") and a
      raw JSON file ("raw view") of all cluster host groups and their components. If you want create
      a custom template to modify a service's configuration, for example to tune Yarn or Hive, refer
      to the Cloudera Manager configuration properties for the
      desired service. You can search these properties by their API Name, which is how they appear
      in a Data Hub template.
If you require a custom cluster template, consider modifying a default template and
      registering it as a new cluster template.

