Configuring Hive VW concurrency auto-scalingCloudera Docs
Configuring Hive VW concurrency auto-scaling
Configuring the Hive Virtual Warehouse to use concurrency auto-scaling is critical
    for controlling cloud expenses.


You are familiar with the auto-scaling process.
You are creating a Hive Virtual Warehouse for running BI-type queries.
In Cloudera Data Warehouse, you added a Hive Virtual Warehouse, configured the size of
            the Hive Virtual Warehouse, and configured auto-suspend as described in previous topics.
          
You obtained the DWAdmin role.



In this task, first you select the number of executors for your virtual cluster.
Minimum executors The fewest executors you think you will need to provide
              sufficient resources for your queries. The number of executors needed for a cloud
              workload is analogous to the number of nodes needed for an on-premises workload.
            
Maximum number The maximum number of executors you will need. This setting limits
              prevents running an infinite number of executors and runaway costs.
Consider the following factors when configuring the minimum and maximum number of
        executors: 
Number of concurrent queries
Complexity of queries
Amount of data scanned by the queries
Number of queries

Next, you configure when your cluster should scale up and down based on one of the
        following factors:
HEADROOM: The number of available coordinators that trigger auto-scaling. For example,
            if Desired Free Capacity is set to 1 on an XSMALL-sized Virtual
            Warehouse, which has 2 executors, when there is less than one free coordinator (2
            queries are concurrently executing), the warehouse auto-scales up and an additional
            executor group is added.
WAIT TIME: How long queries wait in the queue to execute. A query is queued if it
            arrives on HiveServer and no coordinator is available. For example, if WaitTime Seconds
            is set to 10, queries are waiting to execute in the queue for 10
            seconds. The warehouse auto-scales up and adds an additional executor group.

Auto-scaling based on wait time is not as predictable as auto-scaling based on headroom.
        The scaling based on wait time might react to non-scalable factors to spin up clusters. For
        example, query wait times might increase due to inefficient queries, not query volume. 
When headroom or wait time thresholds are exceeded, the Virtual Warehouse adds executor
        groups until the maximum setting for Executors: Min: , Max: has been
        reached.


In Concurrency Auto-scaling properties, in Executors: Min: ,
            Max:, limit auto-scaling by setting the minimum and maximum number of
          executor nodes that can be added.






Choose when your cluster auto-scales up based on one of the following choices: 

HEADROOM
WAIT TIME


Click Apply.


Parent topic: Configuring auto-scaling