Configuring Impala catalog high availabilityCloudera Docs
Configuring Impala catalog high availability
By default, the Impala Virtual Warehouse runs a single instance of the catalog. The
        catalog stores databases, tables, resource usage information, configuration settings, and
        other objects managed by Impala. You can optionally configure running an additional Impala
        catalog instance. One catalog instance operates in active mode, the other in passive mode.
        The passive instance serves as a backup and takes over if the active instance goes
        down.

You enable catalog high availability when you create a New Virtual Warehouse. You
                cannot turn on, but you can turn off catalog high availability after creating an
                Impala Virtual Warehouse. When you create an Impala Virtual Warehouse, you use the same UI dropdown to configure Impala
                coordinator, covered in the previous topic, and Database Catalog high availability.
                You can choose one of the following options:
DisabledDisables Impala coordinator and Database Catalog high
                            availability
Active-passiveRuns multiple coordinators (one active, one passive) and
                            Database Catalogs (one active, one passive)
Active-active coordinatorsRuns multiple coordinators (both active) and
                            Database Catalogs (one active, one passive)


 You must obtain the DWAdmin role. 

Follow instructions for "Adding a new Virtual
                    Warehouse".

In Size, select the number of executors, for example xsmall-2Executors.
A number of additional options appear, including High availability.




In High availability (HA), accept the default
                        Enabled (Active-Passive) or Enabled
                    (Active-Active).
Either option enables Database Catalog high availability in active-passive mode.






Accept default values for other settings, or change the values to suit your use
                    case.
Click the tooltip  for information about settings.

Click CREATE.


Parent topic: Creating a Virtual Warehouse