Correcting the Hive Virtual Warehouse sizeCloudera Docs
Correcting the Hive Virtual Warehouse size
The size of the Hive Virtual Warehouse you select during Virtual Warehouse creation
    determines the number of executors and concurrent queries the Virtual Warehouse can run. You
    need to know how to change the size of the Virtual Warehouse upward or downward to tune
    performance and manage cost. 

You cannot change the size of a Hive Virtual Warehouse, but you can handle incorrect sizing in
        the following ways. 
You can delete the Virtual Warehouse, and then recreate it in a different size.
You can change the auto-scaling thresholds to change the effective size of the Virtual
            Warehouse based on demand. The actual size does not change, but increases or decreases
            in resources occurs automatically.

This task assumes you have two Virtual Warehouses that you decide are incorrectly sized
        for some reason. You correct the sizing of one by deleting and recreating the Virtual
        Warehouse. You correct the effective sizing of the other by changing auto-scaling
        thresholds. 



You obtained the DWAdmin role.


First Virtual Warehouse: Replace this Virtual Warehouse
Log in to the CDP web interface, navigate to Data Warehouse > Overview, note the name of the Virtual Warehouse you want to modify, and note which
          Database Catalog it is configured to access.

In the Virtual Warehouse you want to delete, click Suspend  to stop running it.






Click the options  of the Virtual Warehouse you want to delete, and select
            Delete.

Click Virtual Warehouses > Add
            New.

Set up the new Virtual Warehouse: 


Type the same Name for the new Virtual Warehouse as you used
              for the old Virtual Warehouse.noteThe fully qualified domain name of your Virtual Warehouse, which includes the Virtual Warehouse name plus the environment name must not exceed 64 characters; otherwise, Hue cannot load.
In Type, click the SQL engine you prefer: Hive or
                Impala.
Select your Database Catalog and User
                Group if you have been assigned a user group. 
In Size, select the number of executors, for example xsmall-2Executors.
Accept default values for other settings, or change the values to suit your use
              case. Click  for information about settings.



Click Create.
Second Virtual Warehouse: Change the Auto-Scaling
        Thresholds
In Data Warehouse > Overview, click the options  of the other Virtual Warehouse, a Hive
          Virtual Warehouse for example, to change auto-scaling thresholds, and select
            Edit.

In Sizing and Scaling, in Concurrency Autoscaling, slide the control to change the Max
          number of executors.






Click Apply Changes.


