CDP Public CloudCloudera Docs
CDP Public Cloud
Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) is a hybrid data platform designed for unmatched freedom to
    choose—any cloud, any analytics, any data. CDP consists of CDP Public Cloud and CDP Private
    Cloud.
What is CDP
CDP delivers faster and easier data management and data analytics for data
        anywhere, with optimal performance, scalability, and security. With CDP you get the value of
        CDP Private Cloud and CDP Public Cloud for faster time to value and increased IT
        control.
Cloudera Data Platform provides the freedom to securely move applications, data,
        and users bi-directionally between the data center and multiple public clouds, regardless of
        where your data lives. All thanks to modern data architectures:


A unified data fabric centrally orchestrates disparate data sources
            intelligently and securely across multiple clouds and on premises.


An open data lakehouse enables multi-function analytics on both streaming and
            stored data in a cloud-native object store across hybrid multi-cloud.


A scalable data mesh helps eliminate data silos by distributing ownership to
            cross-functional teams while maintaining a common data infrastructure.


With Cloudera Shared Data Experience (Cloudera SDX), CDP offers enterprise-grade
        security and governance. Cloudera SDX combines enterprise-grade centralized security,
        governance, and management capabilities with shared metadata and a data catalog, eliminating
        costly data silos, preventing lock-in to proprietary formats, and eradicating resource
        contention. Now all users and administrators can enjoy the advantages of a shared data
        experience.



CDP Public Cloud
Create and manage secure data lakes, self-service analytics, and machine learning
        services without installing and managing the data platform software. CDP Public Cloud
        services are managed by Cloudera, but unlike other public cloud services, your data will
        always remain under your control in your workloads and your data will always remain under
        your control in your cloud account. CDP runs on AWS, Azure and Google Cloud.
CDP Public Cloud lets you:


Control cloud costs by automatically spinning up workloads when needed,
            scaling them as the load changes over time and suspending their operation when
            complete.


Isolate and control workloads based on user type, workload type, and workload
            priority.


Combat proliferating silos and centrally control customer and operational
            data across multi-cloud and hybrid environments.







CDP Public Cloud use casesCDP Public Cloud not only offers all the analytics experiences available on-premises,   but also includes tools that enable hybrid and multi-cloud use cases. Customers benefit from   leveraging a single interface whether deploying on a single cloud provider or using multiple cloud   providers. CDP Public Cloud servicesCDP Public Cloud consists of a number of cloud services designed to address specific   enterprise data cloud use cases. CDP Public Cloud interfacesThere are three basic ways to access and use CDP Public Cloud: web interface, CLI   client, and SDK.