CDP Public Cloud glossaryCloudera Docs
CDP Public Cloud glossary
CDP Cloud documentation uses terminology related to enterprise data cloud and cloud
  computing.


CDP (Cloudera Data Platform) Public Cloud - CDP Public Cloud is a cloud
     service platform that consists of a number of services. It enables administrators to deploy CDP
     service resources and allows end users to process and analyze data by using these resources. 
CDP CLI - Provides a command-line interface to access and manage CDP
     services and resources. 
CDP web console - The web interface for accessing and manage CDP services
     and resources. 
Cloudera Observability (service) - A CDP service used by database and workload
     administrators to troubleshoot, analyze and optimize workloads in order to improve performance
     and/or cost.
Cloudera Runtime - The open source software distribution within CDP that is
     maintained, supported, versioned, and packaged by Cloudera. Cloudera Runtime combines the best
     of CDP and HDP. Cloudera Runtime 7.0.0 is the first version.
Cluster - Also known as compute cluster, workload cluster, or
      Data Hub cluster. The cluster created by using the Data Hub service for running
     workloads. A cluster makes it possible to run one or more Cloudera Runtime components on some
     number of VMs and is associated with exactly one data lake. 
Cluster definition - A reusable cluster template in JSON format that can be
     used for creating multiple Data Hub clusters with identical cloud provider settings. Data Hub
     includes a few built-in cluster definitions and allows you to save your own cluster
     definitions. A cluster definition is not synonymous with a blueprint, which primarily defines
     Cloudera Runtime services.
Cluster Repair - A feature in CDP Management Console that enables you to select
     specific nodes within a node group for a repair operation. This feature reduces the downtime
     incurred when only a subset of the nodes are unhealthy.
Cluster template - A reusable cluster template in JSON format that can be
     used for creating multiple Data Hub clusters with identical Cloudera Runtime settings. It
     primarily defines the list of Cloudera Runtime services included and how their components are
     distributed on different host groups. Data Hub includes a few built-in blueprints and allows
     you to save your own blueprints. A blueprint is not synonymous with a cluster definition, which
     primarily defines cloud provider settings.
Control Plane - A Cloudera operated cloud service that includes services like
     Management Console, Cloudera Observability, Replication Manager and Data Catalog. These
     services interact with your account in Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, and Google
     Cloud to provision and manage compute infrastructure that you can use to manage the lifecycle
     of data stored in your cloud account. In addition, the Control Plane can interface with your
     on-premises and Private Cloud infrastructure to support hybrid cloud deployments. 
Credential - Allows an administrator to configure access from CDP to a cloud provider
     account so that CDP can communicate with that account and provision resources within it. There
     is one credential per environment. 
Data Catalog (service) - A CDP service used by data stewards to browse,
     search, and tag the content of a data lake, create and manage authorization policies, identify
     what data a user has accessed, and access the lineage of a particular data set.
DataFlow (service) - A CDP service that enables you to import and deploy your data
     flow definitions efficiently, securely, and at scale. 
Data Lake - A single logical store of data that provides a mechanism for
     storing, accessing, organizing, securing, and managing that data. 
Data Lake cluster - A special cluster type that implements the Cloudera
     Runtime services (such as HMS, Ranger, Atlas, and so on) necessary to implement a data lake
     that further provides connectivity to a particular cloud storage service such as S3 or
     ADLS.
Data Hub (service) - A CDP service that administrators use to create and
     manage clusters powered by Cloudera Runtime.
Data Warehouse (service) - A CDP service for creating and managing
     self-service data warehouses for teams of data analysts.
Data warehouse - The output of the Data Warehouse service. Users access data
     warehouses via standard business intelligence tools such as JDBC or Tableau
Environment- A logical environment defined with a specific virtual
     network and region on a customer’s cloud provider account. CDP service components such as Data
     Hub clusters, Data warehouses, and so on, run in an environment. 
Image catalog - Defines a set of images that can be used for provisioning
     Data Hub cluster. Data Hub includes a built-in image catalog with a set of built-in base and
     prewarmed images and allows you to register your own image catalog.
Machine Learning (service) - A CDP service that administrators use to create
     and manage Machine Learning workspaces and that allows data scientists to do their machine
     learning. 
Machine Learning workspace - The output of the Machine Learning service.
     Each workspace corresponds to a single cluster that can be accessed by end users. 
Management Console (service) - A CDP service that allows an administrator to
     manage environments, users, and services; and download and configure the CLI. 
Operational Database (service) - A CDP service that administrators use to create and
     manage scale-out, autonomous database powered by Apache HBase and Apache Phoenix.
Recipe - A reusable script that can be used to perform a specific task on a
     specific resource.
Replication manager (service) - A CDP service used by administrators and
     data stewards to move, copy, backup, replicate, and restore data in or between data lakes.
Service - A defined subset of CDP functionality that enables a CDP user to
     solve a specific problem related to their data lake (process, analyze, predict, and so on).
     Example services: Data Hub, Data Warehouse, Machine Learning. 
Shared resources - A set of resources such as cloud credentials, recipes
     (custom scripts), and other that can be reused across multiple environments. 



