Migrate to a multiple Kudu master configurationCloudera Docs
Migrate to a multiple Kudu master configuration 
Before migrating to a multiple Kudu masters set up, you need to perform many migration
    planning steps, such as deciding the number of masters, and choosing the nodes where to add the
    new Kudu masters. 

The migration procedure does not require stopping all the Kudu processes in the
        entire cluster but once the migration is complete, all the Kudu processes must be restarted
        to incorporate the newly added masters. The restarting of the Kudu processes can be done
        without incurring downtime.
The procedure supports adding multiple masters at the same time by selecting
        multiple hosts.

Decide how many masters to use.
The number of masters should be odd because an even number of masters does not provide
        any benefit over having one fewer masters. Three or five node master configurations are
        recommended as they can tolerate the failure of one or two masters respectively.

Establish a maintenance window. 
One hour should be sufficient maintenance window time. During this time the Kudu
        cluster will be unavailable.
Optional: 
Configure a DNS alias for the new master or masters. 
The alias can be:
a CNAME record: if the machine already has an A record in DNS
and A record: if the machine is only known by its IP address
importantWithout DNS aliases, it is not possible
            to recover from permanent master failures without restarting the masters and tablet
            servers in the cluster to pick up the replacement master node with a different hostname.
            It is highly recommended that you use DNS aliases.

Perform the following preparatory steps for each new master that you are planning to
        add:


Choose a node in the cluster where there is no running Kudu master yet and which
            has enough spare CPU and memory capacity to host a new Kudu master.
The master generates very little load so it can be collocated with other data
            services or load-generating processes, though not with another Kudu master from the
            same configuration.


Choose and record the directories where the new master’s data and WAL will be
            located.


Choose and record the port the master should use for RPCs.



In Cloudera Manager, add a new Kudu Master role to the selected new master node:


Select the Kudu service.


Select Instances.


Click Add Role Instances.


Click Select hosts under Master × 1.


Select one or multiple host node and click OK.


Click Continue.


Review the changes and if everything is correct, click
                Finish.



Start the newly added master role instance or instances.

Restart the Kudu service.
Optional: 
If you have Kudu tables that are accessed from Impala and you did not set up DNS
          aliases, update the HMS database manually in the underlying database that provides the
          storage for HMS: 


Connect to the HMS database.


Run an SQL statement similar to the following example: 

UPDATE TABLE_PARAMS
SET PARAM_VALUE =
  'master-1.example.com,master-2.example.com,master-3.example.com'
WHERE PARAM_KEY = 'kudu.master_addresses' AND PARAM_VALUE = 'master-1.example.com';




In impala-shell run the following command: INVALIDATE
              METADATA;




To verify that all masters are working properly, consider performing the following checks:
          

 Using a browser, visit each master’s web UI and navigate to the
                /masters page. 
All the masters should be listed there with one master in the LEADER
              role and the others in the FOLLOWER role. The contents of
                /masters on each master should be the same. 


 Run a Kudu system check (ksck) on the cluster using the
                kudu command line tool.

If applicable, run a few quick SQL queries against a couple of migrated Kudu tables
            using impala-shell or Hue.



