PrerequisitesCloudera Docs
Prerequisites
Learn how to collect the information you need to deploy the Dropbox to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow, and meet other prerequisites.
For your data ingest source

You have a Dropbox account. If you do not have one, you can sign up for a
          free account here.
You have data stored in Dropbox that you want to move to an object
          store.
You have created a Dropbox App.
You have generated the following Dropbox credentials: App Key, App Secret,
          Access Token, and Refresh Token
Generating App Key and App Secret
Log in with your Dropbox account.
If you already have an app, go to Dropbox
                    Developers.
Click App Console and select your app.On the
                    app's info page you can find the App key and App
                      secret credentials.
If you do not have any apps, go to Dropbox
                    Developers and click Create apps.
On the next page select Scoped access and
                    Full Dropbox as access type.
Provide a name for your app.
Accept the Dropbox API Terms and Conditions and click
                    Create app.
Your app is created and you are taken to the app's info page. You can find the
                  App key and App secret credentials on the
                  Settings tab.

Setting required permissions for your app

Go to the Permissions tab of your app’s info
                  page.
Set the required permission for your app by enabling
                    files.content.read.With this permission, your app will be
                    able to read the files in Dropbox.
Click Submit.noteIn case you
                    already have an Access Token and Refresh
                    Token, those tokens have to be regenerated after the permission
                    change.For more information, see Generating Access Token and
                      Refresh Token.


Generating Access Token and Refresh Token
Go to the following web page:
                      https://www.dropbox.com/oauth2/authorize?token_access_type=offline&amp;response_type=code&amp;client_id=your_app_key
Click Next and then click Allow on the next page.An
                    access code is generated for you, and it is displayed on the next page.
Execute the following command from the terminal to fetch the access
                  and refresh tokens.curl https://api.dropbox.com/oauth2/token -d
                      code=your_generated_access_code -d grant_type=authorization_code -u
                      your_app_key:your_app_secretimportantMake sure you execute the curl command right after the access
                    code generation, since the code expires very quickly. In case the curl command
                    returns invalid grant error, generate a new access code.The
                    curl command results in a json file that contains the access_token and
                    the refresh_token. {
 "access_token": "sl.xxxxxxxxxxx"
 "expires_in": 14400,
 "refresh_token": "xxxxxx",
 "scope": "files.content.read files.metadata.read",
 "uid": "xxxxxx",
 "account_id": "dbid:xxxx"
 }
For more information, see the Dropbox Getting Started.




For DataFlow


You have enabled DataFlow for an environment.
For information on how to enable DataFlow for an
              environment, see Enabling DataFlow for an Environment.


You have created a Machine User to use as the CDP Workload User.

You have given the CDP Workload User the
              EnvironmentUser role.

From the Management Console, go to the environment for
                  which DataFlow is enabled.
From the Actions drop down, click
                    Manage Access.
Identify the user you want to use as a Workload User.note
The CDP Workload User can be a machine user or your own user name. It is best
                      practice to create a dedicated Machine user for this.

Give that user EnvironmentUser role.



You have synchronized your user to the CDP Public Cloud environment that you enabled
              for DataFlow.
For information on how to synchronize your user to
              FreeIPA, see Performing User Sync.

You have granted your CDP user the
              DFCatalogAdmin and DFFlowAdmin roles to
            enable your user to add the ReadyFlow to the Catalog and deploy the flow definition.

Give a user permission to add the ReadyFlow to the
                    Catalog.
From the Management Console, click User
                        Management.
Enter the name of the user or group you wish to authorize in the
                        Search field.
Select the user or group from the list that displays.
Click Roles > Update Roles.
From Update Roles, select
                        DFCatalogAdmin and click
                        Update.noteIf the ReadyFlow
                        is already in the Catalog, then you can give your user just the
                          DFCatalogViewer role.

Give your user or group permission to deploy flow definitions.
From the Management Console, click
                        Environments to display the Environment
                        List page.
Select the environment to which you want your user or group to deploy flow
                      definitions.
Click Actions > Manage Access to display the Environment Access
                      page.
Enter the name of your user or group you wish to authorize in the
                        Search field.
Select your user or group and click Update
                      Roles.
Select DFFlowAdmin from the list of roles.
Click Update Roles.





For your ADLS data ingest target


You have your ADLS container and path into which you want to ingest
              data.



You have performed one of the following to configure access to your ADLS
            folder:

You have configured access to the ADLS folders with a RAZ enabled environment.
It is a best practice to enable RAZ to control access
              to your object store folders. This allows you to use your CDP credentials to access
              ADLS folders, increases auditability, and makes object store data ingest workflows
              portable across cloud providers.
Ensure that Fine-grained access control is enabled for
                  your DataFlow environment.
From the Ranger UI, navigate to the
                    ADLS repository.
Create a policy to govern access to the ADLS container and path used in your
                  ingest workflow. For example:
                    adls-to-adls-avro-ingesttipThe
                      Path field must begin with a forward slash ( /
                    ).
Add the machine user that you have created for your ingest workflow to ingest
                  the policy you just created.
 For more information, see Ranger policies for RAZ-enabled Azure
                environment.


You have configured access to ADLS folders using ID Broker mapping.
If your environment is not RAZ-enabled, you can
              configure access to ADLS folders using ID Broker mapping.
Access IDBroker mappings.
To access IDBroker mappings in your environment, click Actions > Manage Access.
Choose the IDBroker Mappings tab where you
                      can provide mappings for users or groups and click
                      Edit.

Add your CDP Workload User and the corresponding Azure role that
                  provides write access to your folder in ADLS to the Current
                    Mappings section by clicking the blue +
                    sign.noteYou can get the Azure Managed Identity Resource
                    ID from the Azure Portal by navigating to Managed Identities > Your Managed Identity > Properties > Resource ID. The selected Azure MSI role must have a trust policy allowing
                    IDBroker to assume this role.
Click Save and Sync.





For your S3 data ingest target


You have your S3 path and bucket into which you want to ingest data.



Perform one of the following to configure access to S3 buckets:

You have configured access to S3 buckets with a RAZ enabled environment.
It is a best practice to enable RAZ to control access
              to your object store buckets. This allows you to use your CDP credentials to access S3
              buckets, increases auditability, and makes object store data ingest workflows portable
              across cloud providers. 
Ensure that Fine-grained access control is enabled for
                  your DataFlow environment.
From the Ranger UI, navigate to the S3 repository.
Create a policy to govern access to the S3 bucket and path used in your ingest
                  workflow. tip
The Path field must begin with a forward slash ( /
                      ).

Add the machine user that you have created for your ingest workflow to the
                  policy you just created.


For more information, see Creating Ranger policy to use in RAZ-enabled AWS
                environment.


You have configured access to S3 buckets using ID Broker mapping.
If your environment is
              not RAZ-enabled, you can configure access to S3 buckets using ID Broker mapping.
Access IDBroker mappings.
To access IDBroker mappings in your environment, click Actions > Manage Access.
Choose the IDBroker Mappings tab where you
                      can provide mappings for users or groups and click
                      Edit.

Add your CDP Workload User and the corresponding AWS role that
                  provides write access to your folder in your S3 bucket to the Current
                    Mappings section by clicking the blue +
                    sign.noteYou can get the AWS IAM role ARN from the Roles
                      Summary page in AWS and can copy it into the IDBroker role field.
                    The selected AWS IAM role must have a trust policy allowing IDBroker to assume
                    this role.
Click Save and Sync.






Related conceptsList of required configuration parameters for the Dropbox to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow