Introduction to AWS environmentsCloudera Docs
Introduction to AWS environments
In CDP, an environment is a logical subset of your cloud provider account including a
    specific virtual private network. You can register as many environments as you
    require.
The “environment” concept of CDP is closely related to the virtual private network
      in your cloud provider account. Registering an environment provides CDP with access to your
      cloud provider account and identifies the resources in your cloud provider account that CDP
      services can access or provision. A single environment is contained within a single cloud
      provider region, so all resources deployed by CDP are deployed within that region within one
      specific virtual network. Once you’ve registered an environment in CDP, you can start
      provisioning CDP resources such as clusters, which run on the physical infrastructure in an
      AWS data center. 
The following diagram enumerates the components of an environment:


The diagram illustrates all major user-created and CDP-created components of an
      environment:

The items in dark blue boxes with orange outlines can either be
        automatically provisioned by CDP on your AWS account, or your can optionally pre-create them
        and provide them when registering an environment. 
The items in dark blue boxes must be pre-created by your CDP
        administrator prior to environment registration and then provided when registering an
        environment.
The items in orange boxes are automatically provisioned on AWS by CDP as
        part of environment provisioning.


noteThe items that are user-created don’t get terminated during environment deletion.

As shown in the diagram, an environment consists of the following resources:


Environment component
Description



Virtual network with subnets
An environment corresponds to one specific virtual network and subnets in which
              CDP resources are provisioned. The network is located within one
                specified region; therefore, you also need to select a region for each
                environment.


Security groups
Security groups act as a virtual firewall for your instances to control inbound
              and outbound traffic. All VM instances provisioned within an environment
                use your specified security access settings allowing inbound access to your
                instances from your organization’s computers. 


Cross-account role for provisioning credential
CDP uses a provisioning credential for authorization to provision resources (such
              as compute instances) within your cloud provider account. On AWS, the
                credential uses a cross-account IAM role with an attached IAM policy listing all
                required permissions.


SSH public key
When registering an environment on a public cloud, a CDP administrator
              provides an SSH public key. This way, the administrator has root-level access to the
              Data Lake instance and Data Hub cluster instances.


Cloud storage location and AIM roles and instance profiles allowing
              access to that location
When registering an environment, you must provide one or more S3 buckets for
                storing:
All workload cluster data 
Ranger audits, and FreeIPA logs
Cluster service logs
You must also provide IAM instance profiles that control access to
                the bucket(s).


Data lake
A data lake is automatically provisioned when an environment is
              created. It provides a mechanism for storing, accessing, organizing, securing, and
              managing data. 


FreeIPA
A FreeIPA server is automatically provisioned when an environment is
              created. It is responsible for synchronizing your users and making them available to
              CDP services, Kerberos service principal management, and more. 


You may want to register multiple environments corresponding to different regions
      that your organization would like to use. Once your environment is running, you can provision
      Data Hub clusters, Data Warehouses, and other resources in it.

