Register an AWS environment from CDP UICloudera Docs
Register an AWS environment from CDP UI
Once you’ve met the AWS cloud provider requirements, register your AWS
    environment.
Before you begin
This assumes that you have already fulfilled the environment prerequisites described in AWS requirements.
Required role:
EnvironmentCreator
Steps

Navigate to the Management Console > Environments > Register environment:
        



On the Register Environment page, provide the following information:


Parameter
Description



General Information


Environment Name (Required)
Enter a name for your environment. The name:
Must be between 5 and 28 characters long.
Can only include lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens.
Must start with a lowercase letter.



Description 
Enter a description for your environment.


Select Cloud Provider (Required)
Select Amazon. 


Credential (Required)


Select Credential 
Select an existing credential or select Create new credential. For instructions on how to create a credential, refer to Creating a role-based credential.
noteActivate the Enable Permission Verification
                        button if you want CDP to check permissions for your credential. CDP will
                        verify that you have  the required permissions for your environment.




Click Next.
On the Data Access and Data Lake Scaling page, provide the following information: 
          

Parameter
Description



Data Lake Settings


Data Lake Name (Required)
Enter a name for the Data Lake cluster that will be created for
                    this environment. The name:
Must be between 5 and 100 characters long
Must contain lowercase letters
Cannot contain uppercase letters 
Must start with a letter
Can only include the following accepted characters are: a-z,
                        0-9, -.



Data Lake Version (Required)
Select Cloudera Runtime version that should be deployed for your Data Lake.
                    The latest stable version is used by default. All Data Hub clusters provisioned
                    within this Data Lake will be using the same Runtime version. 


Fine-grained access control on
                    S3


Enable Ranger authorization for AWS S3 Identity 
Enable this if you would like to use Fine-grained access control. Next, from
                    the Select AWS IAM role for Ranger authorizer dropdown, select the
                      DATALAKE_ADMIN_ROLE IAM role created in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


Data Access and Audit


Assumer Instance Profile (Required)
Select the IDBROKER_ROLE instance profile created in Minimal setup for cloud
                        storage.


Storage Location Base (Required)
Provide the S3 location created for data storage in Minimal setup for cloud
                        storage.


Data Access Role (Required)
Select the DATALAKE_ADMIN_ROLE IAM role created in Minimal setup for cloud
                        storage.


Ranger Audit Role (Required)
Select the RANGER_AUDIT_ROLE  IAM role created in Minimal setup for cloud
                        storage.


IDBroker Mappings
We recommend that you leave this out and set it up after registering your
                    environment as part of Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud
                      storage. noteIf you are using Fine-grained access control, this
                      option is disabled, because you should onboard your users and groups via
                      Ranger instead of using IDBroker mappings.


Scale (Required)
Select Data Lake scale. By default, “Light Duty” is used. For
                      more information on Data Lake scale, refer to Data Lake scale.



Click on Advanced Options to make additional configurations for your Data Lake. The
        following options are available:
          

Parameter
Description



Network and
                    Availability


Enable Multiple Availability Zones for Data Lake
Click the Enable Multiple Availability Zones for Data Lake toggle
                    button to enable multi-AZ for the Data Lake. This option is disabled by default
                    and is only available when a Medium Duty Data Lake is selected. Refer to Deploying CDP in multiple AWS availability
                      zones.


Hardware and Storage
For each host group you can specify an instance type. For more information
                    on instance types, see Amazon EC2 instance types.


Cluster Extensions


Recipes
You can optionally select and attach previously registered recipes to run
                    on a specific Data Lake host group. For more information, see Recipes.



Click Next.
On the Region, Networking and Security page, provide the following information:
          

Parameter
Description



Region


Select Region (Required)
Select the region that you would like to use for CDP. If you
                      would like to use a specific existing virtual network, the virtual network
                      must be located in the selected region. 


Customer-managed Keys


Enable Customer-Managed Keys
Enable this if you would like to provide a Customer-Managed Key (CMK) to
                    encrypt environment's disks and databases. Next, under Select Encryption
                      Key, select an existing CMK. For more information, refer to Customer managed encryption
                    keys.


Select Encryption Key
Select an existing CMK.


Network


Select Network (Required)
You have two options:

Select the existing virtual network where you would like to
                          provision all CDP resources. Refer to VPC and subnet.


Select Create new network to have a new network with
                          three subnets created. One subnet is created for each availability zone
                          assuming three AZs per region; If a region has two AZs instead of three,
                          then still three subnets are created, two in the same AZ.




Select Subnets (Required)
This option is only available if you choose to use an existing network.
                    Multiple subnets must be selected and CDP distributes resources evenly within
                    the subnets.


Network CIDR (Required)
This option is only available if you select to create a new network.If you selected to create a new network, provide Network CIDR
                      that determines the range of private IPs that EC2 instances will use. This
                      must be a valid private IP CIDR IP in IPv4 range. For example 10.10.0.0/16 are valid IPs. /16 is required to allow for
                      enough IP addresses.


Create Private Subnets
This option is only available if you select to have a new network and
                    subnets created. Is is turned on by default so that private subnets are created
                    in addition to public subnets. If you disable it, only public subnets will be
                    created. importantFor production deployments, Cloudera recommends
                      that you use private subnets. Work with your internal IT teams to ensure that
                      users can access the browser interfaces for cluster services.


Create Private Endpoints
This option is only available if you select to have a new network and
                    subnets created. It is disabled by default. Enable this option to use private
                    endpoints instead of public endpoints for the following services:
Amazon EC2
Amazon ECR - api and dkr
Amazon EFS
Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL
AWS Auto Scaling
AWS CloudFormation
AWS ELB
AWS S3
AWS STS



Enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway
When CCM is enabled, you can optionally enable Public Endpoint Access
                    Gateway to provide secure connectivity to UIs and APIs in Data Lake and Data Hub
                    clusters deployed using private networking.If you are using your existing
                      VPC, under Select Endpoint Access Gateway Subnets, select the public
                      subnets for which you would like to use the gateway. The number of subnets
                      must be the same as under Select Subnets and the availability zones
                      must match. For more information, refer to Public Endpoint Access Gateway
                      documentation. 


Proxies


Select Proxy Configuration
Select a proxy configuration if previously registered. For more information
                    refer to Setting up a proxy server.


Security Access
                    Settings


Select Security Access Type (Required)
This determines inbound security group settings that allow connections to
                    the Data Lake and Data Hub clusters from your organization’s computers. You have
                    two options:
Create new security groups - Allows you to
                          provide custom CIDR IP range for all new security groups that will be
                          created for the Data Lake and Data Hub clusters so that users from your
                          organization can access cluster UIs and SSH to the nodes. This must be a valid CIDR IP in IPv4 range. For
                          example: 192.168.27.0/24 allows access from 192.168.27.0 through
                          192.168.27.255. You can specify multiple CIDR IP ranges separated with a
                          comma. For example: 192.168.27.0/24,192.168.28.0/24If you use this
                        setting, several security groups will get created: one for each Data Lake
                        host group the Data Lake and one for each host group), one for each FreeIPA
                        host group, and one for RDS; Furthermore, the security group settings
                        specified will be automatically used for Data Hub, Data Warehouse, and
                        Machine Learning clusters created as part of the environment. 


Provide existing security groups (Only available for an
                          existing VPC) - Allows you to select two existing security groups, one for
                          Knox-installed nodes and another for all other nodes. If you select this
                          option, refer to Security groups to ensure that you
                          open all ports required for your users to access environment
                          resources.




SSH Settings


New or existing SSH public key (Required)
You have two options for providing a public SSH key: 
Select a key that already exists on your AWS account within the
                        specific region that you would like to use.
Upload a public key directly from your computer.

noteCDP does not use this SSH key. The matching private key can be used by
                        your CDP administrator for root-level access to the instances provisioned
                        for the Data Lake and Data Hub. 



Add tags
You can optionally add tags to be created for your resources on AWS. Refer
                    to Defining custom tags.



Click on Advanced Options to make additional configurations for the FreeIPA
        cluster. The following options are available:
          

Parameter
Description



Network and
                    Availability


Enable Multiple Availability Zones for Data Lake
Click the Enable Multiple Availability Zones for Data Lake toggle
                    button to enable multi-AZ for the FreeIPA cluster. Refer to Deploying CDP in multiple AWS availability
                      zones.


Hardware and Storage
For each host group you can specify an instance type. For more information
                    on instance types, see Amazon EC2 instance types.


Cluster Extensions



Recipes
You can optionally select and attach previously registered recipes to run
                    on a specific FreeIPA host group. For more information, see Recipes.



Click Next.
On the Storage page, provide the following information: 


Parameter
Description



Logs


Logger Instance Profile (Required)
Select the LOG_ROLE instance profile created in Minimal setup for cloud
                        storage.


Logs Location Base (Required)
Provide the S3 location created for log storage in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


Backup Location Base 
Provide the S3 location created for FreeIPA and Data Lake backups in Minimal setup for cloud storage. If not
                    provided, the default Backup Location Base uses the Logs Location Base.


Telemetry


Enable Workload Analytics
Enables Cloudera Observability support for workload clusters created within
                    this environment. When this setting is enabled, diagnostic information about job
                    and query execution is sent to Cloudera Observability. For more information,
                    refer to Enabling workload analytics and logs
                      collection.


Enable Deployment Cluster Logs Collection
When this option is enabled. the logs generated during deployments will be
                    automatically sent to Cloudera. For more information, refer to Enabling workload analytics and logs
                      collection.



Click on Register Environment to trigger environment registration.
The environment creation takes about 60 minutes. The creation of the FreeIPA server and
        Data Lake cluster is triggered. You can monitor the progress from the web UI. Once the
        environment creation has been completed, its status will change to “Running”.

After you finish
After your environment is running, perform the following steps:
You must assign roles to specific users and groups for the environment so that selected
          users or user groups can access the environment. Next, you need to perform user sync. For
          steps, refer to Enabling admin and user access to
          environments.
You must onboard your users and/or groups for cloud storage. For steps, refer to Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud
          storage.
You must create Ranger policies for your users. For instructions on how to access your
          Data Lake, refer to Accessing Data Lake services. Once you've accessed
          Ranger, create Ranger policies to determine which users
          have access to which databases and tables.


