Delete an environmentCloudera Docs
Delete an environment
Deleting an environment terminates all resources within the environment including the
    Data Lake.
Before you begin
To delete an environment, you should first terminate all clusters running in that
      environment.
Required role: Owner or PowerUser
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI


In Management Console, navigate to Environments. 
Click on your environment. 
Click Actions > Delete and confirm the deletion.
Check the box next to "I would like to delete all connected resources" if you have
              Data Lake and Data Hub clusters running within the environment. This will delete the
              Data Lake and Data Hub clusters together with the rest of the environment.noteThe "I
                would like to delete all connected resources" option does not delete any Data
                Warehouse or Machine Learning clusters running within the environment, so these
                always need to be terminated prior to environment
                termination.
Check the box next to "I understand this action cannot be undone". This is required.
            

Click Delete. 



When terminating an environment from the CDP CLI, you need to first terminate the Data
      Lake:


Terminate the Data Lake using the following command:
                cdp datalake delete-datalake --datalake-name <value>

Wait until the Data Lake terminates before proceeding. Use the following commands to
              check on the status of Data Lake:
                cdp datalake get-cluster-host-status --cluster-name <value>
cdp datalake list-datalakes

Delete the environment using the following command:
            cdp environments delete-environment --environment-name <value> --cascading
The --cascading option deletes or Data Hubs running in the
            environment.



If environment deletion fails, you can:
Repeat the environment deletion steps, but also check "I would like to force delete
              the selected environment". Force deletion removes CDP resources from CDP, but leaves
              cloud provider resources running. 
Clean up cloud resources that were left on your cloud provider account. See Cleaning up a failed AWS
                environment.

Only the resources that were provisioned as part of the environment are deleted. For example,
      if a new network was created by CDP for the environment, the network will be deleted; But if
      you provided your existing network, it will not be deleted as part of environment
      deletion.

Parent topic: Managing an environment