Enabling environment telemetryCloudera Docs
Enabling environment telemetry
You can optionally enable workload analytics so that diagnostic information about job
                and query execution is sent to Cloudera Observability for Data Hub clusters.
                Similarly, you can optionally enable logs collection so that logs generated during
                deployments will be automatically sent to Cloudera. 
Required role: 
PowerUser can set environment telemetry settings for the
                                        whole tenant.
EnvironmentCreator can set environment telemetry settings
                                        during environment registration.
EnvironmentAdmin or Owner can set environment
                                        telemetry settings for an existing environment. 

Enabling workload analytics
If you enable workload analytics, diagnostic information about job and
                                query execution is sent to Cloudera Observability for Data Hub
                                clusters created within all environments. This is disabled by
                                default and can be enabled:
For the whole tenant: 
From the CDP web interface by navigating to
                                                  Management
                                                  Console>Global
                                                  Settings>Telemetry,
                                                  by turning on the Enable Workload
                                                  Analytics. 
Or from the CDP CLI using the following
                                                  command:cdp environments set-account-telemetry --workload-analytics

For a specific environment only: 
During environment creation from the CDP web
                                                  interface, by turning on the Enable Workload
                                                  Analytics option under Logs Storage
                                                  and Audits in the environment creation
                                                  wizard. 
For an existing environment, from environment
                                                  details > Telemetry by turning on the
                                                  Enable Workload Analytics. 
For an existing environment, from the CDP CLI
                                                  using the following
                                                  command:cdp environments set-telemetry-features --environment-name <some-name> --workload-analytics

The environment-level setting overrides the tenant-level
                                setting.
note
Only Data Hubs created after enabling workload analytics on an
                                        environment will send data to Cloudera Observability. Data
                                        Hubs created before workload analytics was enabled will not
                                        start sending data to Cloudera Observability if workload
                                        analytics is enabled for their parent environment.


Enabling cluster logs collection
If you enable cluster logs collection, logs generated during deployments
                                will be automatically sent to Cloudera. This is disabled by default
                                and can be enabled:
For the whole tenant: 
From the CDP web interface by navigating to
                                                  Management
                                                  Console>Global
                                                  Settings>Telemetry,
                                                  by turning on Enable Cluster Logs
                                                  Collection. 
Or from the CDP CLI using the following
                                                  command:cdp environments set-account-telemetry --report-deployment-logs

For a specific environment only: 
During environment creation from the CDP web
                                                  interface, by turning on the Enable Cluster
                                                  Logs Collection option under Logs
                                                  Storage and Audits in the environment
                                                  creation wizard. 
For an existing environment, from environment
                                                  details > Summary >Telemetry by turning on
                                                  the Enable Cluster Logs Collection. 
For an existing environment, from the CDP CLI
                                                  using the following
                                                  command:cdp environments set-telemetry-features --environment-name <some-name> --report-deployment-logs

The environment-level setting overrides the tenant-level
                                setting.

Disable cloud storage logging for an existing environment
By default, CDP sends collected service logs from VM nodes to the cloud
                                storage that you provided for logs during environment registration.
                                In some cases, you may want to disable this for an existing
                                environment. 
You can disable this option from environment details > Summary >
                                        Telemetry by turning off Enable Cloud Storage
                                        Logging.
note
Disabling this option will affect only Data Hub clusters created
                                        after the option was disabled.



Related informationConfigure lifecycle management for logs on AWSDefining anonymization rules for CDP logsCDP includes a set of default anonymization rules and allows you to define custom         anonymization rules in order to remove sensitive information from CDP logs. Parent topic: Managing an environment