Restricting access for CDP services that create their own security groups on AWSCloudera Docs
Restricting access for CDP services that create their own security groups on AWS 
The security groups that you select to use during environment registration are only used
    for the Data Lake, FreeIPA, Data Hubs, and Operational Databases running in that environment.
    The Kubernetes-based CDP services (Data Engineering, Data Flow, Data Warehouse, and Machine
    Learning) create their own security groups with rules that should be restricted separately. 
The following table explains where and when you can restrict these rules:

noteIf you do not restrict these endpoints, CDP defaults to opening access to all
    (0.0.0.0/0).




CDP service
Type of access that can be restricted 
When and where to restrict
Link to related documentation



DataFlow
Admin access to the Kubenetes API Server endpoint can be restricted.End user access can be restricted.
Restrict admin access to Kubernetes endpoints during or after enabling DataFlow
                via the Kubernetes API Server Endpoint Access setting.Restrict end user
                  access to the the DataFlow endpoints during or after enabling DataFlow via the
                    Load Balancer Endpoint Access setting..
Enabling DataFlow for an environmentManaging Kubernetes API Server user
                    access


Data Engineering
Admin access to Kubenetes endpoints can be restricted. End user access
                  can only be restricted manually from the AWS management console. 
Restrict admin access to Kubernetes endpoints during enabling Data
                Engineering via the Whitelist IPs parameter. Restrict end user access
                  manually from the AWS management console.
Enabling Cloudera Data
                  Engineeringand Limiting Incoming Endpoint Traffic for Data
                      Engineering Services


Data Warehouse
Both admin access to Kubernetes endpoints and end user access are always set to the
        same range that can be set in environment activation settings.While the access
         to the Kubernetes endpoints is a combination of the Cloudera Control Plane’s CIDR and your
         CIDR provided in environment activation settings, the access to the end user access points
         (JDBC, UI) is only your CIDR provided in environment activation settings.
In Data Warehouse environment’s activation settings. 
Restricting access to endpoints in AWS
         environmentsandEditing the IP CIDRs in the trusted list for endpoints
           in AWS environments



Machine Learning
There are two separate options, one for admin access to Kubernetes endpoints
        and another for end user access.
During ML workspace provisioning, under Network Settings: 
The Load Balancer Source Ranges parameter can be used to restrict end
          user access.
Selecting the checkmark Restrict access to Kubernetes API server to
           authorized IP ranges allows you to restrict admin access to Kubernetes
          endpoints.

Provisioning ML Workspaces




Parent topic: Managing an environment