Understanding environment detailsCloudera Docs
Understanding environment details
To access information related to your environment, navigate to the Management
   Console service > Environments and click on your environment.




You need to have the EnvironmentUser role or higher for the environment in order to
      access details of that environment.  
From environments details, you can access the following:
From the Data Hub tab, you can create, manage, and access Data Hub clusters
          within the environment.
From the Data Lake tab, you can monitor, manage, and access the Data Lake
          cluster.
From the Cluster Definitions tab, you can access all cluster definitions that can
          be used with the environment. 
From the Summary tab, you can manage and monitor your environment. 

The Summary includes the following information:

Option
Description 



General
This includes your environment's CRN. CRN is an ID that CDP uses to identify a
        resource. 


Credential 
This links the provisioning credential associated with the environment and includes
        the option to change the credential. 


Region
This lists the region in which your environment is deployed.


Network
This lists the networking resources used by your environment, provided by you or
        created by CDP during environment registration. You can add additional subnets for Data Hub
        clusters deployed in the future. 


Security Access
This lists the security groups used by your environment, provided by you or created by CDP during
        environment registration. You can provide new security
         groups for Data Hub clusters deployed in the
        future. 


FreeIPA 
This includes details of a FreeIPA server running in the environment and includes an
        Actions menu with FreeIPA management options.


Log Storage and Audits
This lists the cloud storage location used for logs and audits that you provided
        during environment registration. There is no way to update this location once your
        environment is running.


Telemetry
This includes your environment's telemetry settings. You can change them for any Data
        Hub clusters created in the future.


Advanced
This lists the name of your root SSH key. You can add an additional
         SSH key if needed. The newly added SSH key will only be used for Data Hub clusters created
         in the future.



Related informationUnderstanding Data Hub detailsUnderstanding Data Lake details