Ranger UsersyncCloudera Docs
Ranger Usersync 
How to configure Ranger Usersync to sync users and groups from AD/LDAP
OverviewThe Ranger usersync service syncs users, groups, and group memberships from various sources, such
                as Unix, File, or AD/LDAP into Ranger. Ranger usersync provides a set of rich and
                flexible configuration properties to sync users, groups, and group memberships from
                AD/LDAP supporting a wide variety of use cases.As a Ranger administrator, you will work with users and groups to configure policies in Ranger
                and administer access to the Ranger UI. You will use group memberships only to
                administer access to the Ranger UI. note Group memberships
                    stored in Ranger are not used during authorization. Instead, individual
                    components compute the group memberships for a given user on-demand, using
                    utilities like id or group mappings, during authorization. The authority on this
                    is the output of the id or groups command on the Linux OS, which is populated by
                    SSSD from AD (or whichever LDAP provider is used).  For example:# idsp_test1 uid=40002(sp_test1) gid=40006(sp_test1) groups=40006(sp_test1),40003(cdf_puas),40005(cdf_policy_admins) # id sp_auditor  uid=40003(sp_auditor) gid=40007(sp_auditor)groups=40007(sp_auditor),40003(cdf_puas) uses id to show that users sp_test 1
                        and user sp_auditor each belong to three groups, also
                    #groups sp_test1  sp_test1 : sp_test1 cdf_puas cdf_policy_admins # groups sp_auditor  sp_auditor : sp_auditor cdf_puas  uses groups to show the groups that
                    users sp_test1 and sp_auditor belong to.
You must first understand the specific use-case before syncing users, groups, and
                group memberships from AD/LDAP. For example, if you want to configure only
                group-level policies, then you must sync groups to Ranger, but syncing users and
                group memberships to Ranger is not required.Determining the users and
                    groups to sync to Ranger:Typically, you must complete a three-step process to define the complete set of users and groups
                that you will sync to Ranger:
Define the customer use-case.3 common use cases:
A customer Admin or Data Admin wants to configure only group-level
                                policies and restrict access to the Ranger UI to only a few
                                users.
A customer’s Admin or Data Admin wants to configure only group-level
                                policies and restrict access to the Ranger UI to only members of a
                                group.
A customer’s Admin or Data Admin wants to configure mostly
                                group-level policies and a few user- level policies.

Define all relevant sync source details. For every use-case, at least four
                        key questions must by answered:
What groups will sync to Ranger?
Which organizational units (OUs) in AD/LDAP contain these
                                groups?
What users will sync to Ranger?
Which organizational units (OUs) in AD/LDAP contain these
                                users?

Configure Usersync properties. This topic describes an example set of
                            Usersync configuration properties and values, based on a simple use-case
                            and example AD source repository.
Example Use Case:First, consider the following use-case,
                in order to better understand how to configure Usersync properties:A
                customers Admin or Data Admin wants to configure only group-level policies and
                restrict access to the Ranger UI to only members of a group.Example AD
                    environment:Configuring Ranger Usersync with AD/LDAP depends highly on the customer environment. You must
                understand the organization of users and groups in the customer environment. This
                illustration shows users and groups organized in an Active Directory environment. Figure 1. Example Active Directory Structure

Answering the key user and group questions, based on the example AD
                    structure:In this example, the customer wants to configure
                group-level policies for groups cdp_testing and
                    cdp_prod and wants to provide admin access to the Ranger UI
                only for users in the dev_ops group.Based on the example
                Active Directory structure, answers to the four key user/group questions are:
Q1:  What groups will be synced to Ranger?
A1:   cdp_testing, cdp_prod,
                            and dev_ops
Q2:  What OUs contain these groups in AD?
A2:    hadoop groups and security
                                groups
Q3:  What users will be synced to Ranger?
A3:  asmith and acaroll (these
                            users are dev_ops group members)
Q4: What OUs contain these users in AD?
A4:  vendors and service
                                accounts

To find the specific answers to these questions in a particular environment, use a
                tool such as Ldapsearch, as shown in the following examples.
Example: Ldapsearch command to search a particular group
                            cdp_testing and determine what attributes are
                        available for the group.

Figure 2. Using Ldapsearch to find a specific group



Above output shows all the available attributes for cn=cdp_testing.
                            The highlighted attributes are those of interest for usersync
                            configuration. In this case, cdp_testing has three “member” attributes:
                            ASmith, BHall, and JDoe.
Example: Ldapsearch command to search a particular user
                            ASmith and determine what attributes are available
                        for the user.

Figure 3. Using Ldapsearch to find a specific user



Above output shows all the available attributes for a
                            user. The highlighted attributes are those of interest for usersync
                            configuration. In this case, ASmith is a “memberof” 3 groups -
                            cdp_testing, dev_ops, and cdp_prod.


How to configure Usersync, based on the illustrated AD environment
                example:
In Cloudera Manager > Ranger > Configuration select the Ranger Usersync filter scope.

Figure 4. Filtering the Ranger Configuration Properties for
                                Usersync




Filtering narrows the list to 87 configuration properties specific to Usersync. 


To define the common configuration properties that control LDAP URL and bind
                        credentials, scroll to Source for Syncing Users and
                            Groups, then define the configurations properties
                        appropriate for the environment. Configurations shown here match the Example
                        AD environment. 

Figure 5. Ranger Usersync common configuration settings

Bind credentials are for the user to query Ldap service for
                                        users and groups. Bind credentials contain two configuration
                                            properties:
Usersync Bind User (or bind dn) - specify the
                                                username as complete DN (Distinguished Name)
Usersync Bind User Password




To define the required configuration properties that control group
                        synchronization from AD, scroll to Usersync Enable User
                            Search, then define the configurations properties
                        appropriate for the environment. Configurations shown here match the Example
                        AD environment. 

Figure 6. Ranger Usersync group configuration settings



A few specific points to consider about group config settings:
ranger.usersync.ldap.groupname.caseconversion
                                    - Used for converting the case of the groupname. Three possible
                                    options are:
None - Group names are synced to ranger as is from
                                            AD/LDAP. This is the default setting.
Lower - All the group names are converted to lowercase
                                            while syncing to ranger. This is the recommended
                                            setting.
Upper - All the group names are converted to uppercase
                                            while syncing to ranger
note Policy authorization is case
                                        sensitive. Therefore, usernames and groups names synced to
                                        ranger must match the exact case of the users and groups
                                        resolved by the services such as hdfs, hive, hbase, etc. For
                                        example, consider dev_ops (all in lower
                                        case). Ranger does not treat this as the same value as
                                            Dev_Ops which may have been synced
                                        from AD and applied to some
                                        policies.ranger.usersync.group.searchbase
                                    - Used to search a particular OU in AD for groups. Multiple OUs
                                    can be specified with ; separated. For
                                    example, the example AD shows two OUs that must be searched for
                                        groups:
ou=hadoop groups,dc=cloudera,dc=com (complete DN for
                                            ou=hadoop groups)
ou=security groups,dc=cloudera,dc=com (complete DN for
                                            ou=security groups)

ranger.usersync.group.searchfilter - In
                                    this example, since only 3 groups exist in hadoop groups OU and
                                    security groups OU and since all 3 require sync to Ranger, you
                                    can specify the filter as cn=* . The
                                    value for this property follows standard ldap search query
                                    filter format. note Later, if a new
                                        group is added in AD under these OUs and if the customer
                                        wants those groups to be sync’d to ranger, no configuration
                                        change to usersync is required.
ranger.usersync.user.searchenabled - In
                                    this example, since the customer wants to sync users from
                                        dev_ops groups to provide admin access
                                    to Ranger UI, this property is set to
                                        true .

To define the required configuration properties that control user
                        synchronization from AD, scroll to Usersync User Search
                            Base, then define the configurations properties appropriate
                        for the environment. Configurations shown here match the Example AD
                            environment.

Figure 7. Ranger Usersync user configuration settings

A few specific points to consider about user config
                                            settings:
ranger.usersync.ldap.user.searchbase
                                                - This configuration is used to search a particular
                                                location in AD for users. Specify multiple OUs with
                                                  ; separated.note If users are distributed
                                                  across several OUs, specifying a base directory,
                                                  for example,
                                                  dc=cloudera,dc=com might be
                                                  convenient and is highly recommended to restrict
                                                  the search with proper filters.
ranger.usersync.ldap.user.searchfilter
                                                - In this example, since the customer wants to sync
                                                only the users that belong to
                                                  dev_ops, the value for this
                                                property is
                                                  (memberof=cn=dev_ops,ou=security
                                                  groups,dc=cloudera,dc=com) .note Wildcards are not supported
                                                  only when the memberof
                                                  attribute is used for searching. If you use
                                                  attributes such as cn or
                                                  samaccountname for
                                                  filtering, you can specify wildcards. For example,
                                                  (|(cn=asm*)(samaccountname=acar*))
ranger.usersync.ldap.username.caseconversion
                                                - Used for converting the case of the username.
                                                Three possible options are:
None - Usernames are synced to ranger as is
                                                  from AD/LDAP. This is the default setting.
Lower - All the usernames are converted to
                                                  lowercase while syncing to ranger. This is the
                                                  recommended setting.
Upper - All the usernames are converted to
                                                  uppercase while syncing to ranger
note Policy
                                                  authorization is case sensitive. Therefore,
                                                  usernames and groups names synced to ranger must
                                                  match the exact case of the users and groups
                                                  resolved by the services such as hdfs, hive,
                                                  hbase, etc. For example, consider
                                                  asmith (all in lower case).
                                                  Ranger does not treat this as the same value as
                                                  ASmith which may have been
                                                  synced from AD and applied to some
                                                  policies.









Adding default service users and roles for RangerCloudera Manager adds a property and default values that define roles for the minimum     set of service users by default.Configuring Usersync assignment of Admin usersHow to automatically assign Admin and Key Admin roles for external usersConfiguring Ranger Usersync for Deleted Users and GroupsHow to configure Ranger Usersync for users and groups that have been deleted from the       sync source.Configuring Ranger Usersync for invalid usernames How to configure Ranger Usersync to manage usernames containing invalid         characters.Setting credentials for Ranger Usersync custom keystoreHow to set the custom keystore file location and password for a Ranger Usersync         custom keystore.Enabling Ranger Usersync search to generate internallyYou can configure Ranger Usersync to generate a search filter internally when Search         includes a list of group names or group names with a wildcard character.