Configuring EOS for source connectorsCloudera Docs
Configuring EOS for source connectors
Learn how to enable and configure exactly-once semantics (EOS) for Kafka Connect
        source connectors.

EOS is a framework that enables Kafka and Kafka applications to guarantee
                that each message is delivered precisely once without it being duplicated or lost.
                EOS is supported by some Kafka Connect source connectors. To enable EOS, you must
                enable EOS for the Kafka Connect service roles (Kafka Connect workers) and configure
                your connectors to use EOS.
EOS is enabled for the Kafka Connect service roles in Cloudera Manager with
                the Exactly-once support for source connectors property.
                Connectors can be configured using the SMM UI (recommended), SMM API, or Kafka
                Connect API.



Enabling EOS for Kafka Connect service roles only enables the use of EOS on the
                    level of the service. For individual connectors to make use of EOS, the
                    connector must be specifically configured to use EOS.
Not all connectors shipped in CDP support EOS. The following list collects the
                    source connectors shipped in CDP that support EOS. 
JDBC Source
SFTP Source
NiFi Stateless Source
FileStreamSourceimportantThe NiFi Stateless Source connector is used to deploy your own,
                                custom developed dataflows as Kafka Connect connectors. In order for
                                your connector to support EOS, the dataflow that you deploy must
                                include a source processor that supports state management on the
                                scope of the cluster. For more information see the official NiFi documentation.

If you are using a third-party connector, review the documentation of the
                    connector to learn whether EOS is supported. 



Configure Kafka Connect service roles:


In Cloudera Manager, select the Kafka service. 


Go to Configuration.


Set Exactly-once support for source connectors in the
                                cluster to preparing.


Restart all Kafka Connect service roles.


Set the Exactly-once support for source connectors in the
                                cluster to enabled.


Restart all Kafka Connect service roles. 



Configure source connectors.

The following table collects the common source connector properties that you
                        can use to enable and configure EOS. Configure the following properties
                        based on your requirements. Cloudera recommends that you use the SMM UI to
                        configure and deploy connectors. For more information on connector
                        configuration and deployment see Deploying and managing Kafka Connect
                            connectors in SMM
Table 1. EOS specific Kafka Connect source connector properties

Name
Default value
Description



exactly.once.support
requested

Permitted values are requested
                                            and required. If set to
                                                required, forces a preflight check
                                            for the connector to ensure that it can provide
                                            exactly-once delivery with the given configuration. Some
                                            connectors may be capable of providing exactly-once
                                            delivery but not signal to Kafka Connect that they
                                            support this. In this case, review the documentation for
                                            the connector before connector deployment and set this
                                            property to requested. Additionally, if
                                            the value is set to required but the
                                            worker that performs preflight validation does not have
                                            exactly-once support enabled for source connectors,
                                            requests to create or validate the connector will
                                            fail.



transaction.boundary
poll
Permitted values are poll,
                                            connector, and
                                            interval. If set to
                                            poll, a new producer transaction is
                                        started and committed for every batch of records that each
                                        task from this connector provides to Kafka Connect. If set
                                        to connector, relies on connector-defined
                                        transaction boundaries; note that not all connectors are
                                        capable of defining their own transaction boundaries, and in
                                        that case, attempts to create them with this property set to
                                            connector will fail. If set to
                                            interval, commits transactions only
                                        after a user-defined time interval has passed.


offsets.storage.topic
null
The name of a separate offsets topic to use for this
                                        connector. If left empty or not specified, the worker’s
                                        global offsets topic name is used. If specified, the offsets
                                        topic is created if it does not already exist on the Kafka
                                        cluster targeted by this connector (which may be different
                                        from the one used for the worker's global offsets topic if
                                        the bootstrap.servers property of the
                                        connector's producer has been overridden from the
                                        worker's).


transaction.boundary.interval.ms
null
If transaction.boundary is set to
                                            interval, determines the interval for
                                        producer transaction commits by connector tasks. If unset,
                                        defaults to the value of the worker-level
                                            offset.flush.interval.ms
                                        property.





Related informationDeploying a Kafka Connect connector in SMMParent topic: Using Kafka Connect