Configuring the Kafka Connect RoleCloudera Docs
Configuring the Kafka Connect Role
Learn more about how you can configure the Kafka Connect role as well as its notable
    properties. 
The Kafka Connect role is deployed with and managed by Cloudera Manager. You can view a list of
      configuration properties as well as configure them by going to Kafka
          service > Configuration and selecting the
        Kafka Connect filter in the Filters pane. Most
      of the properties available are the standard worker properties defined in upstream Apache
      Kafka. However, there are a number of notable properties that you should be familiar with when
      using Kafka Connect on CDP. The notable properties are the following:

Broker List for Kafka Connect

These are the brokers Kafka Connect should connect to. You specify the brokers by
            adding IP:port or hostname:port pairs. The brokers you
            specify here should be the brokers that are running in the same cluster that Kafka
            Connect is deployed on. While you can specify a single broker, Cloudera recommends that
            you specify multiple for high availability.



group.id

The group ID is a unique string that Kafka Connect roles use to form a cluster of
            connect workers. This property should always be set to the same string for all Kafka
            Connect roles that are deployed in the same cluster. Kafka Connect will not function
            properly If there is a mismatch between the group IDs. Therefore, Cloudera recommends
            that you use the default values for all roles that you deploy. 



plugin.path

The directory where the Kafka Connect connector plugins are stored. This is the
            directory where JAR files for custom connectors can be placed. Cloudera recommends that
            you use the default path which is /var/lib/kafka.

kafka.connect.rest.port and kafka.connect.secure.rest.port

These are the ports that Kafka Connect API will accept requests on. If the Kafka
            Connect role is TLS/SSL enabled, it will use the port specified in
              kafka.connect.secure.rest.port, if TLS/SSL is not enabled, it will use the
            port specified in kafka.connect.rest.port. Take note of the ports
            as they are needed when you set up SMM to manage and monitor Kafka Connect.


A comprehensive list of all properties available for the Kafka Connect role is available in
        Kafka Properties in Cloudera Runtime.

Related informationKafka Properties in Cloudera RuntimeParent topic: Using Kafka Connect