Configuring SPNEGO Authentication and trusted proxies for the Kafka Connect REST APICloudera Docs
Configuring SPNEGO Authentication and trusted proxies for the Kafka Connect REST
    API
Learn how you enable SPNEGO authentication and configure trusted proxies for the
    Kafka Connect REST API.

noteSPNEGO authentication is automatically enabled if Kerberos is enabled for the Kafka
        service. As a result, SPNEGO authentication might already be enabled. However, If you
        upgraded your cluster from a version that did not have SPNEGO authentication available to a
        version that includes SPNEGO authentication, SPNEGO is not automatically enabled.
You can secure the Kafka Connect REST API by enabling SPNEGO authentication. This can be
        done with the Enable SPNEGO Authentication For Kafka Connect property
        in Cloudera Manager. If SPNEGO authentication is enabled, only users authenticated with
        Kerberos are able to access and use the REST API. Additionally, if Ranger authorization is
        enabled for the Kafka service, authenticated users are only able perform the operations that
        they are authorized for. If Ranger is not enabled, by default all authenticated users are
        able to perform all operations. Because users authenticate using Kerberos, securing the REST
        API using SPNEGO requires that Kerberos is enabled for the Kafka service. 
In addition, the authentication framework supports trusted proxies. If the authenticated
        principal is recognized as a trusted proxy principal, then the authenticator accepts the
          doAs query parameter in the REST URL to specify the acting user. For
        example:https://[***KAFKA CONNECT HOST***]:28085/connector-permissions?doAs=systest
In this example, systest is specified as the acting user. The
          doAs parameter is only accepted if the authenticated principal is
        recognized as a trusted proxy. By default, the Knox and SMM service principals
        (specifically, the short names of their Kerberos service principals) are recognized as
        trusted proxies. Trusted proxies can be configured with the List Of Trusted Proxy
          Services Cloudera Manager property.


Ensure that Kerberos is enabled for the Kafka service. For more information, see Enable Kerberos authentication.

In Cloudera Manager select the Kafka service.Go to Configuration.Find and enable the Enable SPNEGO Authentication For Kafka Connect
          property. Find and configure the List Of Trusted Proxy Services
          property.Add the Kerberos principal short names of the services that you want
          to act as trusted proxies. Click Save Changes. Restart the Kafka service. 

Parent topic: Kafka Connect REST API authentication