Configuring connector JAAS configuration and Kerberos principal overridesCloudera Docs
Configuring connector JAAS configuration and Kerberos principal overrides
Learn how to configure Kafka Connect connectors to override the default JAAS
    configuration and Kerberos principal that they use to connect to the Kafka service. Configuring
    these overrides enables you to set up fine grained access rules for the connectors that you
    deploy.

By default Kafka Connect connectors, specifically the clients managed by Connect, use the
        JAAS configuration and Kerberos principal of the Connect worker (Kafka Connect role) to
        establish a connection with the Kafka service. As a result, all connectors that you deploy
        authenticate with the same principal. Additionally, if authorization is enabled,
        authorization also happens using that same principal. Because the connectors use the same
        principal as the worker and because the worker has all permission on the Kafka service, all
        connectors have full access to Kafka by default. 
This behavior might not be desirable and you might want to configure fine grained access
        rules for individual connectors that you deploy. For example, you might want to have your
        connectors to be able to manage specific Kafka resources only, but not have access to other
        resources. To achieve this, you must configure connectors to be required to specify unique
        connection credentials for the Kafka service connection. Configuration is done in Cloudera
        Manager using Connector Kafka Client Configuration Override Policy
        and Require Connectors To Override Kafka Client JAAS Configuration
        Kafka service properties.

In Cloudera Manager select the Kafka service. Go to Configuration. Find and configure the following properties. 
Table 1. 

Property Name
Description



Connector Kafka Client Configuration Override
                    Policy
Specifies what client configuration can be overridden by the connector. Its
                    value is the class name or alias of the ConnectorClientConfigOverridePolicy
                    implementation. The framework includes three implementations (policies). These
                    are None, All, and Principal. 
If set to None, configurations cannot be overridden. This
                        is the default setting.
If set to Principal, SASL configurations can be
                        overridden
If set to All, all configurations can be overridden



Require Connectors To Override Kafka Client JAAS
                      Configuration
Specifies whether Connector configurations should override the
                      sasl.jaas.config property of the Kafka clients used by the
                    connector. If set to true, connector configurations must override the client's
                      sasl.jaas.config property. The override must also not match
                    the Kerberos credentials of the Connect worker. Additionally, if set to true, a
                      UnionComposite'policy is installed under the
                      connector.client.config.override.policy configuration. If
                      Connector Kafka Client Configuration Override Policy is
                    set to None, it is upgraded to Principal.
                    Otherwise, the existing policy is also applied by the composite policy. 


Click Save Changes.Restart the Kafka service.


Update the configuration of all existing connectors to include the
            sasl.jaas.config property with a valid JAAS configuration.
Ensure that the principal specified for the connector has appropriate permissions
          assigned to it in your authorization service.



Parent topic: Kafka Connect connector configuration security