Kafka Connect SetupCloudera Docs
Kafka Connect Setup 
Learn how you can set up Kafka Connect in CDP Public Cloud with the
      Streams Messaging cluster templates.
Kafka Connect in CDP is provided in the form of a Kafka service
      role. The role is called Kafka Connect. In CDP Public Cloud, Kafka Connect can be deployed
      with the Streams Messaging Light Duty, Heavy Duty, and High Availability templates available
      in the Data Hub service. However, there are some differences between how Kafka Connect is
      deployed with each of the templates.
Light Duty
In the Streams Messaging Light Duty template, Kafka Connect roles share a host group
            and nodes with other service roles. Specifically, Kafka Connect is deployed in the
              Broker and Core_broker host groups and
            shares nodes with Kafka broker, ZooKeeper, and SRM Driver roles. The
              Core_broker is a mandatory host group in Light Duty clusters
            and has an instance (node) count of three. This means that by default, all Light Duty
            cluster you deploy will include a minimum of three Kafka Connect roles. If required,
            Kafka Connect can also be scaled in Light Duty clusters by scaling the
              Broker host group. 
Heavy Duty and High Availability
In the Heavy Duty and High Availability templates, Kafka Connect  roles are deployed
            in a dedicated host group named Connect. The instance count of
            this host group is set to zero by default. This means that, unless specifically
            provisioned, Kafka Connect roles are not deployed in
            Heavy Duty or High Availability clusters by default. The instance (node) count of the
              Connect host group can be configured in Data Hub during cluster
            provisioning. Additionally, you can add Kafka Connect to already running Heavy Duty or
            High Availability cluster by scaling the Connect host group.
For more information regarding the Streams Messaging cluster templates, scaling,  and
      cluster deployment with Data Hub, see the Related Information section below.
Streams Messaging Manager integration
Kafka Connect deployed in CDP Public Cloud is by default configured to integrate with the
        Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) instance running in the cluster. This means that, if you
        provisioned your cluster with Kafka Connect, you will be able to manage, monitor, and deploy
        Kafka Connect connectors with SMM as soon as the cluster is deployed with no additional
        configuration required. Kafka Connect can be managed in SMM on the
          Connect page. For more information, see Monitoring Kafka
          Connect using Streams Messaging Manager. 


Related informationSetting up your Streams Messaging clusterStreams Messaging cluster layout
            Scaling Kafka Connect
            Monitoring Kafka Connect using Streams Messaging Manager