Configuring flow.snapshot for Stateless NiFi connectorsCloudera Docs
Configuring flow.snapshot for Stateless NiFi connectors
Learn about the options you have in Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) when configuring the
    flow.snapshot Stateless NiFi connector property as well as the Save and Enhance feature that can
    be used to automatically import NiFi parameters into the connector configuration. 
importantConfiguring the flow.snapshot property is only required
      when you are deploying your custom developed dataflows with the Stateless NiFi Source or Sink
      connectors. Cloudera developed connectors powered by Stateless NiFi do not require
        flow.snapshot to be set. If the connector you are deploying does not by
      default have a flow.snapshot entry in its configuration template in SMM, you
      do not need to configure it.
NiFi dataflows within Kafka Connect are deployed using the Stateless NiFi Source and Sink
      connectors. When you deploy your custom developed dataflows with the Stateless NiFi
      connectors, you must configure the flow.snapshot property. This property
      specifies the dataflow that is run within the connector. 
Because the value of this property is the dataflow itself, the value you add to the property
      is not a simple string or integer. Instead, the value is the full contents of a flow
      definition JSON file, which depending on the dataflow, can be considerable in size. 
As a result of this, the property is handled in a unique way by SMM. You can use multiple
      configuration methods to specify value. Additionally, you can choose to automatically enhance
      (amend) the configuration with the NiFi parameters that are available within the flow
      definition. 
Configuration methods
You can use the following configuration methods when specifying a value for
          flow.snapshot. The following instructions assume that a flow definition
        JSON file is available to you and that you are logged in to the Connect tab of the SMM
        UI.
note
If the flow definition is larger than 64 KB, the following message appears:
Too large config, to view flow.snapshot click the edit button...
In a case like this, the dataflow is added, but you are not able to edit it directly in
          the Properties section. Instead, you must click 
          and edit or review the flow definition in the modal window that appears. 


Copy and paste the contents of the flow definition
This method is similar to configuring any other connector property. The only
            difference is that the value you specify is considerably longer than other property
            value. 
Open the flow definition in an editor.
Copy the full contents of the file.
Paste the contents of the file in the value field of the
                  flow.snapshot property.

Upload the flow definition
This method involves uploading the flow definition from your own machine. This method
            is convenient if the flow definition JSON is available on the machine you are using to
            access the SMM UI.
Click  next to flow.snapshot.
Click Browse... in the modal window that
                appears.
Select the flow definition file that you want to use. 
Click Save or Save and
                  Enhance.

Reference a file path
The flow.snapshot property accepts file paths. This means that
            instead of copy-pasting or uploading the full contents of the flow definition JSON, you
            can also specify a location on disk where the file is available. Cloudera recommends
            that you use this method if the flow definition is larger than 1 MB. 
Deploy the flow definition file on all Kafka Connect hosts.importantEnsure that the file is deployed to all hosts at the same
                  location and that the user that Kafka Connect is running as, which defaults to
                    kafka, has read access to the file.
Set the file path as the value of the flow.snapshot property.
              



Using Save and Enhance 
NiFi dataflows that you run within Kafka Connect are in the majority of cases
        parameterized. You can assign values to the parameters available within the dataflow on the
        SMM UI during connector configuration. This is done by adding each parameter, with specific
        prefixes, in the Properties section. However, this can take a
        considerable amount of time if done manually. This is especially true if the dataflow has
        many parameters and multiple Parameter Contexts.
In cases like this, you can choose to enhance the configuration by clicking the
          Save and Enhance option after a value for the
          flow.snapshot property is added. If this option is used, SMM parses the
        dataflow specified in flow.snapshot, extracts all parameters that are
        available in the dataflow, and adds them to properties of the connector. The Save
          and Enhance option is available on the modal window that appears after you
        click  next to the property.


Parent topic: Stateless NiFi Source and Sink