Kafka Connect Secrets StorageCloudera Docs
Kafka Connect Secrets Storage
Learn about the Kafka Connect Secrets Storage feature which can be used to hide and
    securely store sensitive data found in connector configurations.
In most production environments, the Kafka Connect connectors that you deploy connect to and
      move data either from or into secured services. Because of this, connectors that you deploy
      might require various credentials to access services. Credentials like passwords, access keys,
      or any other sensitive information must be provided to the connectors in their configuration.
      By default, the connector configurations can be easily read, their contents are unencrypted.
      Additionally, if you are using Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) to manage and deploy
      connectors, all sensitive information might be visible to anyone who has access to SMM with
      appropriate authorization rights. 
Kafka Connect Secrets Storage is a feature within Kafka Connect that makes it possible for
      you to hide any sensitive values found in connector configurations and to store these values
      in a secure manner. For example, assume that you want to deploy a connector that connects to a
      secured service that requires a username and password for access. By default the password
      could be easily read by anyone with access to the connector configuration as the configuration
      is stored in plaintext. This poses a security risk. To circumvent this, you can mark the
      password as a secret. Once you mark the password as a secret, the Kafka Connect Secret Storage
      feature ensures that the password is stored and handled in a secure manner by doing the
      following: 
The property is replaced by a reference in the configuration. The reference resolves to
          the actual password at runtime. That is, the value is no longer readable if the
          configuration is accessed.
The actual value of the password is encrypted and stored in an internal Kafka topic used
          by the feature. 
The value gets hidden (locked) on the SMM UI.


Kafka Connect Secrets Storage terms and conceptsReview the list of terms and concepts related to the Kafka Connect Secrets Storage     feature.Managing secrets using the REST APILearn how you can use the Kafka Connect Secrets Storage feature to manage secrets in     connector configurations using the Kafka Connect REST API.Re-encrypting secretsUsing the Kafka Connect Secrets Storage feature places encrypted confidential     information in an internal Kafka topic (secrets topic) used by the feature. If you want to     change the encryption key used to encrypt the information placed in the topic, all secrets must     be re-encrypted and must be migrated to a new topic. This is done using the     connect-secret-storage-migration tool that is shipped with Cloudera Runtime. Parent topic: Kafka Connect connector configuration security