Choosing Default EngineCloudera Docs
Choosing Default Engine
This topic describes how to choose a default engine for creating
        projects.

Required Role: MLAdminnoteOn Private Cloud, the corresponding role is
                        EnvironmentAdmin.
Make sure you are assigned the MLAdmin role in CDP. Only users with the MLAdmin role
                will be logged into ML workspaces with Site Administrator privileges. 
There are two types of default engines: ML
                    Runtime and Legacy Engines. However, legacy
                engines are deprecated in the current release and project settings default to ML
                Runtime.
Legacy engines
Engines contain the machinery necessary to run
                sessions using all four interpreter options that CML currently supports (Python 2,
                Python 3, R and Scala) and other support utilities (C and Fortran compilers, LaTeX,
                etc.). ML Runtimes are thinner and more lightweight
                    than legacy engines. Rather than supporting multiple programming languages in a
                    single engine, each Runtime variant supports a single interpreter version and a
                    subset of utilities and libraries to run the user’s code in Sessions, Jobs,
                    Experiments, Models, or Applications.


Log in to the CDP web interface.

Click ML Workspaces, then open the Workspace for which
                    you want to set Default Engine.

Click Admin > Runtime/Engine.

Choose the Default Engine you would like to use as the default for all newly
                    created projects in this workspace.

noteLegacy Engines are deprecated in this release
                        and Cloudera recommends using Runtime.


Modify the remaining information on the page: 


Resource Profiles listed in the table are selectable resource options
                            for both legacy Engines and ML Runtimes (for example, when starting a
                            Session or Job) 
The remaining information on the page applies to site-level settings
                            specific for legacy Engines.




Related informationML Runtimes versus Legacy Engines