Configuring QuotasCloudera Docs
Configuring Quotas
This topic describes how to configure CPU, GPU, and memory quotas
    for users of an ML workspace. 

Required Role: MLAdminnoteOn Private Cloud, the corresponding role is EnvironmentAdmin.
Make sure you are assigned the MLAdmin role in CDP. Only users
        with the MLAdmin role will be logged into ML workspaces with Site
        Administrator privileges. 
There are two types of quota: Default and
                    Custom. Default quotas apply to all users of the
                workspace. Custom quotas apply to individual users in the workspace, and take
                precedence over the default quota. 


Log in to the CDP web interface.
Click ML Workspaces, then open the Workspace for which
                    you want to set quotas.
Click
              Admin > Quotas.
Switch the Default Quotas toggle to ON.
This applies a default quota of 2 vCPU and 8 GB memory to each user in the
                    workspace. 
If your workspace was provisioned with GPUs, a default quota of 0 GPU
                    per user applies. If you want users to have access to GPUs, you must modify
                    the default quotas as described in the next step. 

If you want to change the default quotas, click on Default (per
                        user) .
CML displays the Edit default quota dialog box.
Enter the CPU, Memory, and GPU quota values that should apply
          to all users of the workspace.
Click Update.

To add a custom quota for a specific user, click Add
                        User.

Enter the user name, and enter the quotas for CPU, Memory, and GPU.

Click Add.

Enabling and modifying quotas will only affect new workloads. If users have already
            scheduled workloads that exceed the new quota limits, those will continue to run
            uninterrupted. If a user is over their limit, they will not be able to schedule any more
            workloads.
To specify the maximum number of replicas in a model
            deployment, go to Site Administration > Settings > Model Deployment Settings. The default is 9 replicas, and up to 199 can be set.

