Migrating Hive metadataCloudera Docs
Migrating Hive metadata
 You first perform a dry run of HMS Mirror, and check the output. You see how to
        execute HMS Mirror to migrate the Hive metadata in HMS on the HDP cluster to the CDP as a
        Service cluster. 
The dry run of HMS Mirror generates scripts, action files, reports, and a blueprint
            of what migration will take place. tipTo bypass Ranger security checks,
                which speeds up the migration, in Cloudera Manager, set
                    ranger.plugin.hive.urlauth.filesystem.schemes=file in Cloudera Manager > HiveServer (HS2) for Hive on TEZ. In this procedure, you run the HMS Mirror
                command as shown in the step 6. In summary, use the Migrate ACID flag option -ma to
                migrate Hive ACID tables. Alternatively, you can migrate the data by specifying the
                HYBRID data strategy. An HMS Mirror command that sets the intermediate storage flag
                stages data in S3, as required for transfers in the public cloud. The target CDP
                SaaS environment uses the S3 object store in the cloud instead of the on-prem HDFS
                because the target does not have direct access to the on-prem HDFS.


If you are going to migrate non-native Hive tables, such as HBase, Kafka, or
                    JDBC-backed tables, make these services available on the CDP One
                    cluster; otherwise metadata migration does not work.
If you have many databases to migrate, separate them into batches of 100
                    databases, or fewer. HMS Mirror does not accept a larger batch.
A batching strategy is recommended. Inspect the number of tables/partitions
                    within each database and develop a general criterion for batching.



Stop all workloads on the source HDP and destination CDP clusters.

Run HMS Mirror to perform a dry run by omitting the -e option.

hms-mirror -db migrate_db -mnn The output looks something
                    like this: 




List the generated reports.
For example,
                    ls /root/.hms-mirror/reports/2022-03-16_19-09-08/




Open the HMS Mirror report in the migrate_db_hms-mirror.html file, and scroll
                    down to see the DB Create Statement.





Reports follow the DB Create Statement. 

Scroll down to Skipped Tables/Views.



 Your managed tables will not be listed in Skipped Tables/Views, if you omit
                    the -ma option, for example.

Run the HMS Mirror command to execute the migration (-e option) of the
                    migrate_db database.
For example:
Migrating standardhms-mirror -db migrate_db -e
Migrating ACID tableshms-mirror -db migrate_db -ma -is s3a://intermediate_storage_location -e -d HYBRID
Migrating non-native tables (HBase, Kafka, JDBC)hms-mirror -db migrate_db -mnn -e
                    


noteThe -d HYBRID migrates the data). The
                        intermediate data is staged in S3 via hms-mirror, required in a public
                        cloud transfer scenario because the target CDP SaaS env does not have direct
                        access to the on-prem HDFS).


At the prompt to confirm that you backed up the Hive Metastore (HMS) in both
                    clusters, enter TRUE.






At the prompt to confirm that you configured the file system TRASH, enter
                    TRUE.
HMS Mirror generates reports in the directory shown in the output.
The metadata migration process completes.


Parent topic: Migrating Hive data from HDP 2.x or HDP 3.x to CDP One