HMS Mirror command summaryCloudera Docs
HMS Mirror command summary
 There are several critical options you need to use with the hms-mirror command to
  migrate HDP to CDP migration.
Run the following HMS Mirror help command, or go to the Cloudera HMS
    Mirror github site, to see a description of all command options:
   hms-mirror -hFor the HDP to CDP migration, you generally use the subset of
   options shown in the following command:
   hms-mirror -db <database name> -ma -mnn -e

-asm
Migrate avro based schema tables.
-d,--data-strategy <strategy>
Specify how the data will follow the schema. [SCHEMA_ONLY, LINKED, SQL, EXPORT_IMPORT,
     HYBRID, CONVERT_LINKED, STORAGE_MIGRATION, COMMON]
-da, -downgrade-acid 
 Downgrade ACID tables to EXTERNAL tables with
     purge.
-db [<db1,db2,..>]
Comma separated list of databases (up to 100) where dbn is the database name. The
     database name is optional, only required if the database value is null in the YAML
     configuration file.
-dc, --distcp
Generate the distcp commands.
-e, --execute
Executes HMS Mirror. Omit for a dry run.
--hadoop-classpath
Required for migrating from a Kerberos-enabled HDP cluster. For more information, see HMS Mirror documentation.  


-ma | --migrate-acid
Manage managed tables, translating source metadata to the destination.
-mao
Migrate only acid tables.
-mnn
Manage non-native tables, such as HBase/Kafka/JDBC backed hive tables, translating source
     metadata to the destination.
-mnno
Migrate only non-native tables.
-o <output directory>
Output directory location.
-s, --sync
Drop metadata on the destination CDP One cluster if it does
     not match the definition on the HDP source cluster. (Ideally, there should not be any data on
     the destination cluster before metadata migration.)
--setup
Creates a default.yaml file in the $HOME/.hms-mirror/cfg/ directory by prompting you for
     information about your migration. You customize the YAML manually for your migration.
-v | --views-only
Migrates only VIEWs between two environments. This option alone must be run to separately
     generate views.

You can run any combination of options, except -v, which only migrates views. Run HMS Mirror to
   migrate views separately. VIEW creation requires dependent tables to exist. Run
      hms-mirror to create all the target tables before running it with the
      -v option.This flag is an OR for processing views OR tables. They are NOT
   processed together.
      Requirements:
The dependent tables must exist in the RIGHT cluster
When using -dbp|--db-prefix option, VIEW definitions are not
    modified and will most likely cause VIEW creation to fail.


Parent topic: Migrating Hive data from HDP 2.x or HDP 3.x to CDP One