Replication policy considerationsCloudera Docs
Replication policy considerations
You should take into consideration certain guidelines when creating or modifying a
        replication policy. It is important for you to understand the security restrictions and
        encryption policies within Replication Manager.
The guidelines you need to consider before you create or modify a replication
            policy includes:
Data security
To use an S3 cluster for your policy, register your credentials on the Cloud
            Credentials page.
A user with access to the Replication Manager user interface has the ability to
            browse, within the Replication Manager UI, the folder structure of any clusters enabled
            for Replication Manager.
Therefore, users can view folders, files, and databases in the Replication
            Manager user interface, that they might not have access to in HDFS. Users cannot view
            from the Replication Manager UI the content of files on the source or destination
            clusters. Nor do these administrators have the ability to modify or delete folders or
            files that are viewable from the Replication Manager UI.
Replication Manager policy properties and settings
Consider the recovery point objective (RPO) of the data being replicated when
            you schedule a replication policy. The RPO is the acceptable lag time between the active
            site and the replicated data on the destination. Ensure that the frequency is set so
            that a job finishes before the next job starts.
Jobs based on the same policy cannot overlap. If a job is not completed before
            another job starts, the second job does not execute and is given the status Skipped. If
            a job is consistently skipped, you might need to modify the frequency of the job.
Specify bandwidth per map, in MBps. Each map is restricted to consume only the
            specified bandwidth. This is not always exact. The map throttles back its bandwidth
            consumption during a copy in such a way that the net bandwidth used tends towards the
            specified value.
Cluster requirements


Pair the clusters before you include them in a replication policy.


With a single cluster, you can replicate data on-premises to the
                    cloud.


With a single cluster, you cannot replicate data on-premises to
                    on-premises.


If the clusters are Replication-Manager enabled, it appears in the
                    Source Cluster or Destination in the Create Policy wizard. You must ensure that
                    the clusters you select are healthy before you start a policy instance
                    (job).



Parent topic: Accessing the Replication Manager service