Performing post-migration tasksCloudera Docs
Performing post-migration tasks
You must complete the post-migration activities on your CDP cluster.
noteThe “userid” should NOT change while performing the post-migration task.
                If they are different, the documents do not populate for the user, as the documents
                are mapped with the specific userid. Login to Hue using the same credentials
            used while using the source CDH Hue cluster. 
The saved documents must be populated.

noteWhile carrying out the post-migration task, if the userid is
                different from the one that was used earlier, use the following method to resolve
                the differences.

Post Migration requirementsYou
                must note the list of manual refactoring changes that should be applied to the Oozie
                jobs to get them working in the new environment. 
Name-node settings for each workflow
Resource-manager settings for each workflow
Paths, if the locations are being changed
JDBC URLs, including Hive must point to the new database
DFS paths may need to be replaced with S3
New cluster-specific configurations for the Workflow (for example,
                    Amazon S3 credentials.)
Coordinator Jobs that have future sdf runs scheduled. Recreate these
                    jobs to match what was included in any other cluster. For such Jobs, the
                    Workflow and its configuration might be stored in Hue
Copy any custom sharelib jars from the source to the destination
                    cluster. The jars are stored here:
                        /user/oozie/share/lib/lib_{TIMESTAMP}/{COMPONENT}
If you have custom application jars used by any of your workflows,
                    please make sure you recompile them with the 3rd-party libraries used by the
                    latest Cloudera runtime. 
For example on older versions of HDP, Oozie was using Guava 11, but in CDP 7 it
                is using Guava 28 or higher. If you compiled your application with Guava 11 you must
                also upgrade Guava.
On the destination cluster, update the sharelib using the following
                    command:
 oozie admin -oozie {URL} -sharelibupdate

Parent topic: Migrating Hue databases from CDH to CDP One