Migrating workflows directly created in Oozie to CDP OneCloudera Docs
Migrating workflows directly created in Oozie to CDP One
The oozie workflows present on HDFS must be migrated to CDP One.
Oozie workflows created manually or outside of the Hue Workflow editor require
            specific review and manual updates. No automated tool or a process is required for
            updating manually created workflows and property files. 
The Oozie workflows are available in HDFS within CDH and HDP clusters. To
            migrate the Oozie workflows from these clusters to CDP SaaS involves a separate workflow
            process. 
While using the HDP clusters, you can use the DistCp tool to migrate the Oozie
            workflows present in HDFS. While using the CDH clusters, you can employ the Replication
            Manager App to migrate the Oozie workflows present in HDFS
Specifically, some manual updates are required to process the Oozie migration
            created outside of the Hue Workflow. Before you proceed further, you must
            understand:


During the migration process you must copy across all Oozie job files
                        (workflow.xml, job.properties, and any
                    supporting JARs).


Which Oozie workflow files must be copied or migrated to CDP One.
                    Identify the workflow.xml file and
                        job.properties file for each Oozie workload that must be
                    migrated. These files are stored in HDFS and must be copied to the CDP One
                    endpoint.


The job.properties file must be updated with the
                    appropriate CDP One endpoints.


Optionally, the workflow.xml file needs to be updated.
                    For example, while currently using the legacy “hive action” requires an update
                    to the newer “hive2 action”.


Depending on where (the location) you have stored your Oozie workflow data in
            HDFS, note the following information:
The workflow.xml and any job JAR files reside within HDFS in
            the source cluster. These will have to be copied across into a CDP One endpoint.
The job.properties file for a job contains a reference to the
            location of where the workflow files are stored. The job.properties
            file will need to be updated during a migration with the new target environment settings
            / locations.

noteThe job.properties file must be run from "local" and not HDFS,
                but some customers may have these files also stored on HDFS in the source
                cluster.


note Using the Oozie Hive Action with HiveServer2 is deprecated. If
                using the legacy HivAction in your Oozie workflow, you must
                modify your workflow.xml to use the Hive 2
                    Action instead.


If required, the refactoring of the component level code. For example,
                Oozie job executing Spark 1.6 code requires an update to the newer Spark 2.4
                version. For more information, see Migrating Spark workloads to CDP.


Related informationMigrating HDFS and Hive data from CDH to CDP OneMigrating HDFS data from HDP to CDP OneParent topic: Migrating data from CDH to CDP One