Migration prerequisitesCloudera Docs
Migration prerequisites
You need to know the prerequisites for migrating HDFS and Hive data from CDH to CDP One. 
You must meet the following general prerequisites before starting the migration
            process:

AWS is your Cloud provider. Migrating to Azure / GCP is currently not
                supported.
Classic clusters (CDH/HDP/CDP Private Cloud Base) are on-premises clusters
                that host the data to be replicated to the CDP deployment. These clusters are
                on-premises versions of Cloudera Data Platform and must be registered on the
                Management Console before they can be used for data migration purposes. For more
                information, see Support Matrix for Replication
                    Manager.
Validate the CDH source cluster as per cluster requirements. 
CDH clusters must have been created using Cloudera Manager. 
Clusters that are not managed by Cloudera Manager cannot be registered to
                CDP.
You must log in as the admin user to Cloudera Manager in
                the CDH cluster.
Replication user needs to have hadoop admin privilege on
                source cluster.
On the source cluster which is running CDH, make sure the user we specify
                on the replication manager source cluster side has hadoop admin
                privileges.
Your source cluster supports compatible versions of Cloudera Manager and
                Cloudera Runtime shown in the following table:




Source cluster
Earliest supported Cloudera Manager
Earliest supported Cloudera Runtime



CDH 5
6.3.0
5.1.0


CDH 6
6.3.0
6.1.0


CDH 6
7.3.1
6.3.3



The only required migration tool is Cloudera Replication Manager, which is
            pre-installed in Cloudera Manager and licensed for use in Data Hub.
Specifically note that:


Your CDH cluster is registered on the CDP Management Console. For more
                    information, see Adding a CDH cluster.
Open communication ports between the source
                    CDH cluster and CDP list.
Set up line-of-sight from the CDH cluster to the AWS endpoint.
Ensure adequate network connectivity between the CDH cluster and AWS
                    endpoint.
Create an external account on the CDH cluster that has a non-expiring access
                    credentials and secret key pair.

You must have the license to perform your tasks in Replication
                        Manager. To understand more about Cloudera license requirements, see Managing Licenses.

Allocate storage on HDFS to create HDFS snapshots that allows administrators to
                    modify the active file-system.
You must be a part of the super-group on each host on the CDH cluster.



Ports for Replication Manager on CDP Public CloudYou must open certain ports on the CDH source host to allow communication between the         source on-premises cluster and CDP.Setting up an external accountAs CDH Administrator, you need to create an External Account on the CDH cluster that         has an access key and secret key pair for accessing the cloud storage used in the CDP One environment. Setting up SSL/TLS certificate exchange In order to replicate data securely, you must configure an SSL/TLS certificate         exchange between the two Cloudera Manager instances that manage the source and target         clusters. Cloudera license requirements for Replication ManagerYou must have the required license to perform your tasks in Replication Manager.Parent topic: Migrating HDFS and Hive data from CDH to CDP One