Best practices for rack and node setup for ECCloudera Docs
Best practices for rack and node setup for EC
In a CDP Private Cloud Base deployment, when setting up a cluster to take advantage of EC,
    consider the number of racks and nodes in your setup.
Ideally, the number of racks exceed the data-stripe width to account
        for downtime and outages. If there are fewer racks than the data-stripe
        width, HDFS spreads data blocks across multiple nodes to maintain fault
        tolerance at the node level. When distributing blocks to racks, HDFS
        attempts to distribute the blocks evenly across all racks. Because of
        this behavior, Cloudera recommends setting up each rack with a similar
        number of DataNodes. Otherwise, racks with fewer DataNodes may be filled
        up faster than racks with more DataNodes.
To achieve node-level fault tolerance, the number of nodes needs to equal the data-stripe
        width. For example, in order for a RS-6-3-1024k policy to be node failure tolerant, you need
        at least nine nodes. Note that the write will fail if the number of DataNodes is less than
        the policy's number of data blocks. The write will succeed but show a warning message if the
        number of DataNodes is less than the policy's number of data blocks + parity blocks. For
        example, with RS(6,3), if there are six to eight DataNodes, the write will succeed but show
        a warning message. If there are less than six DataNodes, the write fails.
For rack-level fault tolerance, there must be enough number of racks such that each rack
        contains at most the same number of blocks as the erasure coding parity blocks. The number
        of racks is calculated as (data stripe width) / (number of parity blocks). For example, with
        RS(6,3), the minimum number of racks must be (6+3)/3 = 3. Cloudera recommends at least nine
        racks, which leads to one data or parity block on each rack. Ideally, the number of racks
        exceeds the sum of the number of data and parity blocks. 
If you decide to use three racks, spread the nine nodes evenly across three racks. The data
        and parity blocks, when distributed evenly, lead to the following placement on the racks:
Rack 1 with three nodes: Three blocks
Rack 2 with three nodes: Three blocks
Rack 3 with three nodes: Three blocks

A policy with a wide data-stripe width like RS-6-3-1024k comes with a tradeoff though. Data
        must be read from six blocks, increasing the overall network load. Choose your EC policy
        based on your network settings and expected storage efficiency. Note, the larger the cluster
        and colder the data, the more appropriate it is to use EC policies with large data-stripe
        widths. Larger data-stripe widths have the benefit of a better storage efficiency. 

Parent topic: Erasure coding overview