Start and stop the NFS Gateway servicesCloudera Docs
Start and stop the NFS
      Gateway services
You must start the following daemons to run the NFS services on the Gateway:
         rpcbind (or portmap), mountd, and
         nfsd. The NFS Gateway process includes both nfsd and
         mountd. Although NFS Gateway works with portmap included
      with most Linux distributions, you must use the portmap included in the NFS
      Gateway package on some Linux systems such as SLES 11 and RHEL 6.2.
Stop the nfs/rpcbind/portmap services provided by the platform.  
service nfs stopservice rpcbind
               stop

 Start the included portmap package using one of the following
               commands: hadoop portmap or hadoop-daemon.sh start
                  portmap.

noteYou must have root privileges to run these commands.


Start mountd and nfsd using one of the following
               commands: hdfs nfs3 or hadoop-daemon.sh start nfs3. 
notehdfs nfs3 starts the services as a foreground process while
                     hadoop-daemon.sh start nfs3 starts the services as a
                  background process.No root privileges are required for this command.
               However, verify that the user starting the Hadoop cluster and the user starting the
               NFS Gateway are the same.noteIf the hadoop-daemon.sh script
                  starts the NFS Gateway, its log file can be found in the hadoop log folder
                     (/var/log/hadoop).For example, if you launched the NFS
                     Gateway services as the root user, the log file would be found in a path
                     similar to the following:
/var/log/hadoop/root/hadoop-root-nfs3cdp.log


Stop the NFS Gateway services.
hadoop-daemon.sh stop nfs3hadoop-daemon.sh stop
                     portmap

Verify the validity of the NFS services
Verify validity of the NFS servicesAfter starting the NFS services on the Gateway, you must verify whether all the         services are running. Additionally, you must ensure that the HDFS namespace is exported and         can be mounted.Parent topic: Using the NFS Gateway for accessing HDFS