Set HDFS quotasCloudera Docs
Set HDFS quotas
As an administrator, you can set HDFS quotas for the number of file and directory
        names used and the amount of space used by directories after the Reports Manager service is
        installed as part of Cloudera Management Service. Before you can set a quota, the Reports
        Manager must index the file or directory.
Considerations for working with HDFS quotas

The quotas for names and the quotas for space are independent of each other. 
You cannot create more files and directories if their creation would cause the
                    quotas to exceed.
Block allocation fails if the quota prevents a full block from being
                    written.
If you are using replication, each replica of a block counts against the
                    quota.


File count limits

The file count quota is a limit on the number of file and directory names in the
                    directory configured.
A directory counts against its own quota. Therefore, a quota value of 1 forces
                    the directory to remain empty.
File counts are based on the intended replication factor for the files. Changing
                    the replication factor for a file will increase or decrease the corresponding
                    quota values.


Disk space limits

The space quota is a hard limit on the number of bytes used by files in the tree
                    rooted at the directory being configured.
Each replica of a block counts against the quota.
The disk space quota calculation takes replication into account. Therefore, the
                    calculation uses the replicated size of each file and not the user-facing
                    size.
The disk space quota calculation includes open files (that are being written)
                    and files that already written.
Block allocations for files being written fail if the quota does not allow a
                    full block to be written. 



Related informationHDFS Quotas GuideSet up a storage policy for HDFSSetting HDFS quotas in Cloudera ManagerYou can set the file count or space quotas for a directory using Cloudera Manager.         Ensure that you have administrator privileges before you set the quotas.Parent topic: Optimizing data storage