Caching terminologyCloudera Docs
Caching terminology
A cache directive defines the path to cache while a cache pool manages groups of
            cache directives.
Cache directive
Defines the path to be cached. Paths can point either directories or files.
                        Directories are cached non-recursively, meaning only files in the
                        first-level listing of the directory will be cached.
Cache directives also specify additional parameters, such as the cache
                        replication factor and expiration time. The replication factor specifies the
                        number of block replicas to cache. If multiple cache directives refer to the
                        same file, the maximum cache replication factor is applied.
The expiration time is specified on the command line as a time-to-live (TTL),
                        which represents a relative expiration time in the future. After a cache
                        directive expires, it is no longer taken into consideration by the NameNode
                        when making caching decisions.

Cache pool
An administrative entity that manages groups of cache cirectives. Cache pools
                        have UNIX-like permissions that restrict which users and groups have access
                        to the pool. Write permissions allow users to add and remove cache
                        directives to the pool. Read permissions allow users to list the Cache
                        Directives in a pool, as well as additional metadata. Execute permissions
                        are unused.
Cache pools are also used for resource management. Cache pools can enforce a
                        maximum memory limit, which restricts the aggregate number of bytes that can
                        be cached by directives in the pool. Normally, the sum of the pool limits
                        will approximately equal the amount of aggregate memory reserved for HDFS
                        caching on the cluster. Cache pools also track a number of statistics to
                        help cluster users track what is currently cached, and to determine what
                        else should be cached.
Cache pools can also enforce a maximum time-to-live. This restricts the maximum
                        expiration time of directives being added to the pool.


Related informationCentralized cache management architectureParent topic: Improving performance with centralized cache management