Parameters to configure the Disk BalancerCloudera Docs
Parameters to configure the
      Disk Balancer
You must configure various parameters through HDFS Service Advanced
         Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) in hdfs-site.xml for
      effectively planning and executing the Disk Balancer.

Parameter
Description

dfs.disk.balancer.enabled
Controls whether the Disk Balancer is enabled for the cluster. The Disk
                  Balancer executes only if this parameter is set to True. The
                  default value is False.

dfs.disk.balancer.max.disk.throughputInMBperSec
The maximum disk bandwidth that Disk Balancer consumes while transferring
                  data between disks. The default value is 10 MB/s.

dfs.disk.balancer.max.disk.errors
The maximum number of errors to ignore for a move operation between two
                  disks before abandoning the move. The default value of the maximum errors to
                  ignore is 5. For example, if a plan specifies data move operation between three
                     pairs of disks, and if the move between the first pair encounters more than
                     five errors, that move is abandoned and the next move between the second pair
                     of disks starts.

dfs.disk.balancer.block.tolerance.percent
Specifies a threshold value in percentage to consider a move operation
                  successful, and stop moving further data.For example, setting this value to 20%
                     for an operation requiring 10GB data movement indicates that the movement will
                     be considered successful only after 8GB of data is moved.

dfs.disk.balancer.plan.threshold.percent
The ideal storage value for a set of disks in a DataNode indicates the
                  amount of data each disk should have for achieving perfect data distribution
                  across those disks. The threshold percentage defines the value at which disks
                  start participating in data redistribution or balancing operations. Minor
                  imbalances are ignored because normal operations automatically correct some of
                  these imbalances. The default threshold percentage for a disk is 10%;
                     indicating that a disk is used in balancing operations only if the disk
                     contains 10% more or less data than the ideal storage value.


Parent topic: Plan the data movement across disks