Getting Started with Streams Messaging Manager Alert PoliciesCloudera Docs
Getting Started with Streams Messaging Manager Alert Policies
Learn how to set up Alert Policies and Notifiers, how to view generated alerts, and how
    to disable an Alert Policy in Streams Messaging Manager (SMM).

Alert Policies in SMM are user configured alerts that automatically trigger when configured
        conditions are met. An alert contains the details of the policy including the alert message
        and the conditions that triggered the alert. Once an alert is triggered, a notification is
        sent out by SMM using the Notifier associated with the Alert Policy. You can use these
        alerts and notifications to monitor the health of Kafka, as well as to identify and
        troubleshoot problems.
For example, assume that you want to monitor your Kafka topics to ensure that data
        production and consumption is happening without interruptions. To do this you could set up
        an Alert Policy that triggers if the bytes consumed from or produced to your topics fall
        below a specified threshold. When the alert is triggered, SMM sends out a notification using
        the Notifier associated with the Alert Policy immediately notifying you of a potential
        issue.
The following steps walk you through how to set up a simple Alert Policy that uses an HTTP
        Notifier, how to view the generated alerts within SMM, and how to disable an Alert
        Policy.

Access the SMM UI by entering the following in a browser window:
http://localhost:9991
Click (Alerts) on
          the navigation sidebar.Create a notifier.
Go to NOTIFIERS.
Click ADD NEW.
Configure the notifier as follows:Take note of the URL property. This property
              specifies the URL where this notifier sends alerts. You do not need to add the URL of
              an actual service to create and test Alert Policies. As a result, for this tutorial,
              you can set this property to a placeholder value. For example
                http://my-service.com/endpoint. In a production environment
              however, the URL you enter would be an endpoint of a target service that can consume
              and process the alerts that SMM sends.
Click Save.
Create an Alert Policy.
Go to ALERT POLICIES.
Click ADD NEW.
Configure the Alert policy as follows:


Click Save.
View alerts.
Go to History. Wait a few seconds and refresh the page, alerts
            should appear on the page.
Disable the Alert Policy.
Go to Alert Policies.
Find the alert policy that you want to disable, and click the toggle button
              beside the alert policy.

To learn more about Alert Policies and Notifiers, see 
        Managing Alert Policies Using Streams Messaging Manager.

Related informationManaging Alert Policies Using Streams Messaging ManagerParent topic: Getting started with Streams Messaging