Increasing the maximum number of processes for Oracle databaseCloudera Docs
Increasing the maximum number of processes for Oracle database
While using Oracle as a backend database for Hue, if you face issues connecting to the
  Hue service after restarting the database, then it is possible that the Hue service is not able to
  get a new database connection. The following error in the Hue logs indicates that the maximum
  number of connections have exhausted: "ORA-12519: TNS:no appropriate service handler found". This
  can be resolved by increasing the number of available processes.
After restarting the Oracle database, if you are not able to connect to the Hue service, check
   the Hue logs for the ORA-12519: TNS:no appropriate service handler
    found error. If you see the ORA-12519: TNS:no appropriate service
    handler found error in the logs, then work with your database administrator to
   check whether the maximum number of processes have exceeded. If the maximum number of processes
   have exceeded, then you see the following error: ORA-00020: maximum number of
    processes exceeded. Increase the number of processes to resolve this issue.
How to calculate the number of database processes, transactions, and sessions?
Cloudera recommends that you allow 100 maximum connections for each service that requires a
    database and then add 50 extra connections. For example, for two services, set the maximum
    connections to 250. If you have five services that require a database on one host (the databases
    for Cloudera Manager Server, Activity Monitor, Reports Manager, Cloudera Navigator, and Hive
    metastore), set the maximum connections to 550.
From the maximum number of connections, you can determine the number of anticipated sessions
    using the following
    formula:sessions = (1.1 * maximum_connections) + 5
For example, if a host has a database for two services, anticipate 250 maximum connections. If
    you anticipate a maximum of 250 connections, plan for 280 sessions.
Based on the number of sessions, you can determine the number of anticipated transactions
    using the following formula:transactions = 1.1 * sessions
Continuing with the previous example, if you anticipate 280 sessions, you can plan for 308
    transactions.
Work with your Oracle database administrator to apply these derived values to your system.
Using the sample values above, Oracle attributes would be set as
    follows:alter system set processes=250;
alter system set transactions=308;
alter system set sessions=280;


