MySQL: 1040, 'Too many connections' exceptionCloudera Docs
MySQL: 1040, 'Too many connections' exception
If Hue displays the "1040, Too many connections" exception, then it is possible that
        the Hue backend database is overloaded and out of maximum available connections. To resolve
        this issue, you can increase the value of the max_connections property for
        your database.

The 1040, 'Too many connections' exception occurs on a MySQL database when it runs
                out of maximum available connections. If you are using the Impala engine, you may
                see the following error message on the Hue web interface: OperationalError
                    at /desktop/api2/context/computes/impala("1040: too many connections").
                A similar error may be displayed for Hive. The exception is also captured in the Hue
                server logs.

The max_connections property defines the
            maximum number of connections that a MySQL instance can accept. Uncontrolled number of
            connections can crash the server. Following are some guidelines for tuning the value of
            the max_connections
                property:
Set the value of the max_connections property according to the
                    size of your cluster.
If you have less than 50 hosts, then you can store more than one database (for
                    example, both the Activity Monitor and Service Monitor) on the same host. If you
                    have more than 50 hosts, then use a separate host for each database/host pair.
                    The hosts need not be reserved exclusively for databases, but each database must
                    be on a separate host.
For less than 50 hosts:
Place each database on its own storage volume.
Allow 100 maximum connections for each database and then add 50 extra
                            connections. For example, for two databases, set the maximum connections
                            to 250. If you store five databases on one host (the databases for
                            Cloudera Manager Server, Activity Monitor, Reports Manager, Atlas, and
                            Hive MetaStore), then set the maximum connections to 550.

To increase the number of maximium available connections and to resolve the
                "1040, Too many connections" exception:

Log in to Cloudera Manager and stop the Hue service.

SSH in to your database instance as a root user.

Check the number of available connections by running the following
                    command:

grep max_conn /etc/my.cnf

/etc/my.cnf is the default location of the options file
                        (my.cnf).

Set the new value of the max_connections property from the
                    MySQL shell as per the guidelines provided above. For example:

mysql> SET GLOBAL max_connections = 550;


Restart the Hue service.


