




CDP Public Cloud Data Hub: Documentation








Cloudera Docscloud









CDP Public Cloud Data Hub




CDP Public Cloud Release Notes
CDP Public Cloud Release Summaries
CDP Public Cloud Patterns
CDP Public Cloud Preview Features


Data Hub is a service for launching and managing workload clusters. Data
Hub provides a set of default cluster definitions and templates that
allow you to quickly provision workload clusters for prescriptive use
cases, such as Data Engineering or Flow Management. Through Data Hub and
Cloudera Manager you can also access and manage the clusters that you
create.





Cluster deployment:
Currently, you can deploy Data Hub clusters on
AWS, 
Azure,
or GCP.
Deploying a Data Hub cluster requires that you have a cloud provider
account with either AWS, Azure or GCP; an environment registered in CDP; and
a cloud credential. You can learn more about these specific requirements
in the
Management Console documentation.


Cluster configuration:
You can easily create a Data Hub cluster from a
default cluster configuration,
or you can create your own custom cluster configurations. Data Hub
clusters are powered by Cloudera Runtime and Cloudera DataFlow
components, and the
Runtime
and
DataFlow for Data Hub
documentation contain more information about individual cluster services.


Cluster access and management:
After you create a Data Hub cluster, you can
access cluster web UIs and endpoints
through the Data Hub page of the CDP UI. Through the UI you can also
perform most
cluster management tasks,
such as resizing, stopping, or restarting a cluster, as well as stopping
and restarting cluster services. Certain cluster management,
configuration, and monitoring functions are performed through the
Cloudera Manager
Admin Console, which is accessible from Data Hub.


Running workload clusters:
Once your cluster is up and running and you can access it, refer to
Cloudera Runtime or Cloudera DataFlow for Data Hub documentation for
information about running workload clusters
using services such as Hive, Spark, Impala, Hue, or Kafka.


API, CLI and SDK:
The CDP Control Plane provides
API,
CLI
and
SDK
tools that you can use to script and automate certain Data Hub cluster
creation and management tasks.


When you’re ready to get started with Data Hub, read the
in-depth overview.



















