MOB cache propertiesCloudera Docs
MOB cache properties
Opening a MOB file places the corresponding HFile-formatted data in active memory.
        Too many open MOB files can cause a RegionServer to exceed the memory capacity and cause
        performance degradation. To minimize the possibility of this issue arising on a
        RegionServer, you must tune the MOB file reader cache to a size that HBase can scale. 
The MOB file reader cache is a least recently used (LRU) cache that keeps
                only the most recently used MOB files open. Refer to the MOB Cache Properties table
                for variables that can be tuned in the cache. MOB file reader cache configuration is
                specific to each RegionServer, so assess and change, if needed, each RegionServer
                individually. You must manually add any of the following properties you may require
                in the HBase Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                hbase-site.xml property. 
The following properties are available for tuning the HBase MOB cache.


Property
Default
Description


hbase.mob.file.cache.size
1000
The opened file handlers to cache. A larger value
                                benefits read operations by providing more file handlers per MOB
                                file cache and reduces frequent file opening and closing. However,
                                if the value is too high, errors such as "Too many opened file
                                handlers" might be logged.


hbase.mob.cache.evict.period
3600
The amount of time in seconds after a file is opened
                                before the MOB cache evicts cached files.


hbase.mob.cache.evict.remain.ratio
0.5f
The ratio expressed as a float between 0.0 and 1.0,
                                that controls how many files remain cached after an eviction is
                                triggered due to the number of cached files exceeding the value
                                assigned to the  hbase.mob.file.cache.size property.


Related informationConfigure the MOB cache using Cloudera ManagerParent topic: Storing medium objects (MOBs)