Enabling HBase META ReplicasCloudera Docs
Enabling HBase META Replicas
When many HBase clients try to access a META table concurrently, it becomes
        overloaded, which in turn reduces the HBase performance. When you enable HBase META
        replicas, HBase maintains read-only copies of the META table on additional region servers
        and ensures that the META table reads are load balanced between the replicas. This improves
        the HBase performance.

You can enable HBase META replicas by configuring a set of properties in Cloudera
                Manager.


Open Cloudera Manager and go to the HBase service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Scope > (Service-Wide).

Locate the HBase Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                        Valve) for hbase-site.xml property or search for it by typing
                    its name in the search box.

Add the following property values:



Master Replica Count:
                                    hbase.meta.replica.count
Description: The number of region replicas to
                                maintain for the META table.
Value: 3


Region Locator Mode:
                                    hbase.locator.meta.replicas.mode
Description: The Region Locator's mode when
                                META replica is configured.
Value: LoadBalance


Meta Replicas Use:
                                    hbase.meta.replicas.use
Description: Specifies whether to use META
                                table replicas.
Value: true


Region Replica Replication Catalog Enabled:
                                    hbase.region.replica.replication.catalog.enabled
Description: Specifies whether to enable
                                asynchronous WAL replication for META region replicas.
Value: true




Select Scope > Gateway.

Locate the HBase Client Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                        Valve) for hbase-site.xml property or
                    search for it by typing its name in the search box.

Add the property values mentioned in Step 5.

Enter a Reason for change, and then click
                        Save Changes .

Restart the role and service when Cloudera Manager prompts you to
                    restart.


