Enabling Flink DEBUG loggingCloudera Docs
Enabling Flink DEBUG logging
You can review the log text files of the Flink jobs when an error is detected during
        the processes. When you set the log level of Flink to DEBUG, you can easily trace the log
        file for errors.

A log file is created for every Flink process that contains messages for the
                different events happening in the given process. You can use these log files to
                solve the errors and problems that can occur during Flink processes. You can access
                the Flink logs using the Flink Dashboard.


Navigate to the Configuration page in Cloudera
                    Manager.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where you have created your
                            cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster from the
                            list of Data Hub clusters.


Select Cloudera Manager from the services.
You are redirected to the Cloudera Manager user
                            interface.


Click Clusters > Flink.


Click Configuration.



Search for Flink Client Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety
                        Valve) for flink-conf/log4j.properties configuration.

Add the following parameters to the Safety Valve:

logger.flink.name = org.apache.flink
logger.flink.level = DEBUG


Click Save Changes.

Restart the Flink service with Action > Restart.
After updating the Flink log configuration in
                    Cloudera Manager, you need to access the YARN Resource Manager user interface
                    from the Streaming Analytics cluster page.

Access the YARN Resource Manager user interface to stop the YARN job of the
                    Flink application.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the
                            environment where you have created your cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster.


Select Resource Manager from the list of Services.
You are redirected to the Resource Manager user
                            interface.


Select Applications.
The running Flink applications are displayed.



Select the application you need to stop.

Click Settings.

Select Kill application.
After stopping the Flink application, you can
                    review the log file of the Flink job by accessing the Flink Dashboard from the
                    Streaming Analytics cluster page.

Navigate to Flink Dashboard and review the log level for
                    the running job.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the
                            environment where you have created your cluster.


Select the Streaming Analytics cluster.


Click Flink Dashboard from the list of
                            services.



Select Task Managers from the main menu.

Select the previously submitted job.

Click Logs.


Parent topic: Monitoring