Creating a Virtual WarehouseCloudera Docs
Creating a Virtual Warehouse
 A Virtual Warehouse is an instance of compute resources in Public Cloud that is
    equivalent to an on-prem cluster. You learn how to create a new Virtual Warehouse in Cloudera
    Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud. 

A Virtual Warehouse provides access to the data in tables and views in the data lake your
        Database Catalog uses. A Virtual Warehouse can access only the Database Catalog you select
        during creation of the Virtual Warehouse. 
In this task and subtasks, you configure Virtual Warehouse features, including
        performance-related features for production workloads, such as the Virtual Warehouse size
        and auto-scaling. These features are designed to manage huge workloads in production, so if
        you are evaluating CDW, or just learning, simply accept the default values. This task covers
        the bare minimum configurations. 
In subtopics, you see details about how to configure features for production workloads,
        such as Hive query isolation and Impala catalog high availability. 
In AWS environments, you can optionally select an availability zone. All compute resources
        run will run in the selected zone. noteSelection of the zone is not an option in Azure
          environments.



You obtained permissions to access a running environment for creating a Virtual Warehouse.
You obtained the DWAdmin role to perform Data Warehouse tasks.
You logged into the CDP web interface.
Your activated the environment from Cloudera Data Warehouse.

              For more information about meeting prerequisites, see Creating your first Virtual Warehouse.
    

Navigate to  Data Warehouses > Virtual Warehouses > Add New.

In New Virtual Warehouse, specify a Name, its
            Type (Hive or Impala), which Database
            Catalog to query. 


noteThe fully qualified domain name of your Virtual Warehouse, which
              includes the Virtual Warehouse name plus the environment name must not exceed 64
              characters; otherwise, Hue cannot load.



Select the Hive or Impala type of Virtual Warehouse you want.
Virtual Warehouses can use Hive or Impala as the underlying SQL execution engine.
          Typically, Hive is used to support complex reports and enterprise dashboards. Impala is
          used to support interactive, ad-hoc analysis. 

In AWS environments only, accept the default availability zone, or select an
          availability zone, such as us-east-1c.





The default behavior is to randomly select an availability zone from the list of
          configured availability zones for the associated environment. Generally, it is fine to
          accept the default. 

Optionally, select Enable SSO to enable single sign-on to your Virtual Warehouse, and in
            User Groups, select a user group set up in advance to access
          endpoints. If you do not have a user group set up for SSO, do not select Enable
            SSO.
In Management Console > User Managementyou set up a user group, required for enabling SSO, that identifies the
          users authorized to access to this Virtual Warehouse.

Optionally, enter keys and values for Tagging the Virtual
          Warehouse.






Select the Size of the Virtual Warehouse as described in the next
          subtopic.
The AutoSuspend and Autoscaling controls appear. 

Configure auto-scaling as described in the subsequent subtopic.

Select the Hive Image Version or the Impala Image
            Version version, and the Hue Image version you want
          to use, or accept the default version (latest) at the top of the drop-down menus.
For example
          




Accept default values for other settings, or change the values to suit your use case,
          and click Create to create the new Virtual Warehouse.
Click the tooltip 
          for information about settings.
When you create a Virtual Warehouse, a cluster is created in your cloud provider
          account. This cluster has two buckets. One bucket is used for managed data and the other
          is used for external data.


Related informationCustom tags in AWS environmentsCustom tags in Azure environmentsVirtual Warehouse sizing requirements for public cloud environmentsYou need to understand how to estimate size requirements for Cloudera Data Warehouse     (CDW) Public Cloud Virtual Warehouses to create a Virtual Warehouse that meets your     needs.How to size a Virtual WarehouseWhen you create a Virtual Warehouse, you need to carefully set the size of your         Virtual Warehouse. The size of the Virtual Warehouse you select during Virtual Warehouse         creation determines the number of executors and concurrent queries the Virtual Warehouse can         run. Configuring AutoSuspend You need to enable or disable AutoSuspend to handle resources when the auto-scaler         has scaled back to the last executor group. You can control the time that the original         warehouse executor group idles after all other groups scale down and release their         executors. The JDBC endpoint lives on to respond to queries from the result cache or         statistics, but expensive executors no longer run.Configuring auto-scalingWhen you create a Virtual Warehouse, you set auto-scaling to increase and decrease       resources according to demand. Auto-scaling relinquishes resources when demand decreases to       limit unnecessary cloud expenses. Auto-scaling increases resources to speed performance. Configuring Workload Aware Auto-ScalingYou configure Workload Aware Auto-Scaling, available as a technical preview, when you create a Virtual Warehouse following a step-by-step procedure using the CDW UI.    Configuring Impala coordinator shutdownTo cut cloud expenses, you need to know how to configure Impala         coordinators to automatically shutdown during idle periods. You         need to know how to         prevent unnecessary restarts. Monitoring programs that periodically connect to Impala can         cause unnecessary restarts.Configuring Impala coordinator high availabilityA single Impala coordinator might not handle the number of concurrent queries you         want to run or provide the memory your queries require. You can configure multiple active         coordinators to resolve or mitigate these problems. You can change the number of active         coordinators later.Configuring Impala catalog high availabilityBy default, the Impala Virtual Warehouse runs a single instance of the catalog. The         catalog stores databases, tables, resource usage information, configuration settings, and         other objects managed by Impala. You can optionally configure running an additional Impala         catalog instance. One catalog instance operates in active mode, the other in passive mode.         The passive instance serves as a backup and takes over if the active instance goes         down.