Configuring a Virtual WarehouseCloudera Docs
Configuring a Virtual Warehouse
After adding a Virtual Warehouse, you can change auto-scaling, enable single-sign-on
  (SSO) for your clients, configure a time zone, and speed up UDF queries by caching UDF
  JARs.


Tuning Virtual WarehousesAfter creating a Virtual Warehouse, you can change the auto-scaling and some other     configurations. Tuning Impala auto-scalingTuning Impala Java tool optionsAfter creating an Impala Virtual Warehouse, you can change the Java tool options. The         options apply only to the Impala Catalog.Disabling metadata synchronizationBy default, metadata is synchronized when refreshed/invalided across multiple Impala         Virtual Warehouses that share a Database Catalog. When you run a command to refresh a table         or invalidate metadata in any one of these Impala Virtual Warehouses, metadata is         refreshed/invalidated in parallel. You learn how to disable this feature if you do not want         to synchronize metadata for some reason.Disabling Impala catalog high availabilityYou enable catalog high availability when you create a New Virtual Warehouse. You         cannot turn on, but you can turn off catalog high availability after creating an Impala         Virtual Warehouse. You turn off this feature by editing your Virtual Warehouse. Enabling SSO to a Virtual WarehouseLearn how to enable SSO (single sign-on) to your Virtual Warehouse from JDBC/ODBC         clients. Your authorized clients can connect to the Virtual Warehouse using SSO. Find out         how to recognize a connection string to connect to a Virtual Warehouse that is         SSO-enabled.Configuring token-based authenticationUsing a JSON web token (JWT), your Virtual Warehouse client user can sign on to your     Virtual Warehouse for a period of time instead of entering single-sign on (SSO) credentials     every time your user wants to run a query. Configuring a time zoneCloudera Data Warehouse by default is configured for the UTC time zone. If you want         time-related queries in your Virtual Warehouse to return results in your local time zone         instead of UTC, you need learn how to change the configuration.Configuring Hive Virtual Warehouses to cache UDF JARsAfter you write and compile your User Defined Function (UDF) code into a Java Archive     (JAR) file, you can configure a Hive Virtual Warehouse to cache the UDF JAR in HiveServer (HS2)     in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). Connecting CDW and KuduYou can configure an Impala Virtual Warehouse to connect to Kudu in Data Hub and then   create tables stored in Kudu from Impala. You learn prerequisites, gather information for the   configuration, and see the steps for making the connection. There are several advantages of   running Kudu queries from CDW.Setting up a past release for a CDW-Kudu connectionTo connect CDW to Kudu using a past release 1.5.1-b110 (released Nov 22, 2022) or         earlier, you need to configure Kubernetes DNS resolution unless you create a new         environment. Configuring the Kubernetes DNS resolution is required only in AWS environments. Configuring Iceberg manifest caching in Impala Virtual Warehouse Apache Iceberg provides a mechanism to cache the contents of Iceberg manifest files in   memory. In Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), you can enable or disable Iceberg manifest caching for   Impala Coordinators and Catalogd, and set a few other properties, in your Impala Virtual   Warehouse. Managing high partition workloadsYou learn how to identify an error related to high partition workloads that require         configuration of your Hive Virtual Warehouse to run successfully. You might need to         configure your Virtual Warehouse to prevent these errors when inserting data into workloads         with a large number of partitions and columns. 