Compaction observabilityCloudera Docs
Compaction observability
Compaction observability is a notification and information system based on metrics about
  the health of the compaction process. A healthy compaction process is critical to query
  performance, availability, and uptime of your data warehouse. You learn how to use compaction
  observability to prevent serious problems from developing. 
Compaction runs in the background. At regular intervals, Hive accesses the health of the
   compaction process and logs an error in the event of a problem. The assessment is based on
   metrics, such as the number of rows in the metadata table TXN_TO_WRITE_ID and the age of the
   longest running transaction (oldest_open_txn_age_in_sec). For example, if compaction isn't
   running the TXN_TO_WRITE_ID table in the HMS backend database becomes bloated and queries slow
   down. You use prebuilt Grafana dashboards to view alerts about compaction status, the issue, and recommended actions. The
   following list describes a few of more than 25 notifications:
Oldest initiated compaction passed threshold
Large number of compaction failures
More than one host is initiating compaction

Compaction alerts provide the following information to help you proactively address the
   problems before the problems become an emergency: 
Warnings and errors that suggest next steps
Charted metrics
Hive logging

Compaction observability does not attempt to do root cause analysis (RCA) and does not attempt
   to fix the underlying problem. Compaction observability helps you quickly respond to symptoms of
   compaction problems. Factors unrelated to compaction per se can look like a compaction problem.
   For example, an underlying problem related to renewing a Kerberos ticket problem can surface as a
   compaction problem. Configuring kerberos to add authorization, changing the running user, or
   increasing the queue size might solve the problem. Compaction observability provides
   troubleshooting information.
 Alerts are on by
   default in Cloudera Data Warehouse. By default, the compaction health data is collected by
   default. Alerts place no load on Hive. The data about compaction health is not stored for very
   long, and is not stored in Hive. The data is emitted from Hive, and a backend thread, which is
   configurable to run as often as you want, collects metrics in Prometheus.
   
See the Data Warehouse for Public Cloud release notes for information about how to pick up this feature if you do not see it. 

Related informationData Warehouse for Public Cloud release notesViewing a compaction alert using GrafanaLearn how you can use Grafana dashboards to view compaction alerts and take necessary         actions to keep your cluster healthy.Adding a compaction alertYou can define compaction alert rules for your Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)         deployment based on Prometheus expressions. The alerts are automatically triggered when         specific events occur in your deployment.Managing a compaction alertYou can manage compaction alerts in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) by modifying alert         details, such as the alert name, message, expression that defines threshold conditions for         the alert, frequency, and severity of the alert.Configuring alert notificationsAs Administrator, you need to learn how to configure alert notifications that appear in         the user notification system. The notifications supplement alert information in charts on         the Manage/Hive/Compaction Observability dashboard in Grafana. You learn to use the UI for         this configuration, but alternatively, you can use the Kubernetes configuration method. Configuring alert notifications, no UIYou learn to use the Kubernetes configuration method of configuring alert         notifications that appear in the user notification system. Configuring notifications using         this method has the same effect as using the UI method. The notifications supplement alert         information in charts on the Manage/Hive/Compaction Observability dashboard in Grafana. Checking an alert notification configurationYou learn how to ensure your alert notification configuration is in effect. You fetch         the configuration directly from the alertmanager and check that it is reachable. Deleting a compaction alertLearn how to delete an user-defined or default compaction alert that you no longer         require for your Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) deployment.