Compactor processesCloudera Docs
Compactor processes
These background processes run inside the metastore and HiveServer2 in Cloudera Data
   Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud. They support the data modifications made as a result of ACID
   transactions.


Compactor process
Description



Initiator

This process runs in the metastore, which equates to the Database Catalog construct
              in the CDW UI, and discovers which tables and partitions are due for compaction. By
              default, it runs every 5 minutes. To change this interval:

Identify the Database Catalog for the Virtual Warehouse on which you want to
                change the compaction interval by selecting the Virtual Warehouse tile. The
                associated Database Catalog is highlighted.
In the Database Catalog, click the edit icon in the tile to launch the Database
                Catalog details page.
On the Database Catalog details page, make sure the
                CONFIGURATIONS tab is selected, and then select the
                Metastore subtab.
On the Metastore subtab, select
                hive-site from the drop-down list on the left, and search for
              the hive.compactor.check.interval KEY.
Add your preferred check interval in the associated VALUE
                field in seconds.
Click APPLY in the upper right corner of the page to apply
                your changes. The services are automatically updated with the new configuration.




Worker
This process runs in HiveServer2, which equates to the Hive Virtual Warehouse
            construct in the CDW UI. The worker process performs the actual compacting work. In CDW,
          compaction runs an INSERT statement created from the output of a SELECT statement, thereby
          re-writing the data to new base or delta files.


Cleaner
This process runs in the metastore and deletes delta files after compaction and
            after it determines the files are no longer needed. By default, the cleaner runs every 5
          seconds (5,000 milliseconds). The check occurs on the visibility ID/transaction ID, which
          is a global transaction identifier.



Parent topic: Compaction in Cloudera Data Warehouse