Rebuilding a Database CatalogCloudera Docs
Rebuilding a Database Catalog
 You can clean up resources and redeploy your Database Catalog using your existing
        image, or the latest image. You might want to rebuild your Database Catalog to get a feature
        in a later Database Catalog image, to perform housekeeping, or to troubleshoot a
        problem.

Upgrading your Database Catalog also rebuilds it. Rebuilding the Database Catalog
                redeploys resources in the cluster while keeping the configurations and other
                settings you made.
You can rebuild the Database Catalog in the following ways:

Using the Beta version DW CLI
Using the Rebuild button in the UI
Using the Upgrade button in the UI

In this task, you rebuild the Database Catalog using the
                    Rebuild button in the UI.
Rebuilding a Database Catalog has the following limitations:
Rebuilding deprecated versions of the Database Catalog is not supported and
                        will fail. 
Rebuilding does not preserve the changes you made directly, using kubectl
                        for example, to cluster resources in the affected namespaces.Changes you
                            make to the Database Catalog using either the UI or CDP CLI are
                            preserved.




You must obtain the DWAdmin role.
You must obtain the entitlement to use this
                    feature.
You must be running the version 2022.0.6-b92 or later
                    of the Database Catalog to rebuild it.
To preserve Hue documents, such as saved queries, you need to save a backup of
                    the documents as described in Backing up and restoring Hue
                        documents.



Log in to the CDP web interface, navigate to Data Warehouse > Database Catalogs, and select your Database Catalog.

Click .






Select Rebuild.

Rebuild the Database Catalog.

If your Database Catalog does not have the latest image, you see
                        the version number of your current image and can select Keep
                            current image version, and then click Rebuild
                            Database Catalog.


Alternatively, you can accept the default value for Keep
                            current image version, which is off, and then click
                            Rebuild Database Catalog. The Database Catalog
                        will be rebuilt using the latest image. 


If your Database Catalog has the latest image, click Rebuild
                            Database Catalog.


Restore Hue documents as described Backing up and restoring Hue
                        documents.

If you do not want to change JDBC/ODBC URLs, for example
            env-xdd4x6.dw, when rebuilding the Database Catalog, open a Support case to have the
            CDW_CUSTOM_CLUSTER_ID entitlement enabled. 

Backing up and restoring Hue documentsYou can back up and restore Hue data, such as a Hive or Impala query you saved in a         JSON document, in the Hue database to prevent losing the documents after rebuilding the         Database Catalog.