Configuring token-based authenticationCloudera Docs
Configuring token-based authentication
Using a JSON web token (JWT), your Virtual Warehouse client user can sign on to your
    Virtual Warehouse for a period of time instead of entering single-sign on (SSO) credentials
    every time your user wants to run a query. 
JWT authentication does not involve a user name and password. You do not have to provide any
            secrets (passwords) to the server, such as a Virtual Warehouse. Instead, JWT tokens,
            generated by a third party, which is Apache Knox in Cloudera Data Platform, issues a JWT
            token. Knox can sign the token through asymmetric key cryptography, and the JWT token
            carries the signature. You can use the token as a bearer token, essentially a password,
            for accessing the Virtual Warehouse. The Virtual Warehouse needs only a public key
            stored in a JSON blob called a JSON Web Key Set (JWKS).
Following the procedure below, you acquire a token and set the lifespan of that token (cannot
            be revoked until expiration). Tokens can be shared.
If you created an Impala Virtual Warehouse for JWT authentication, your client user can choose
      the following ways to access your the Impala Virtual Warehouse:
From ImpylaThis option requires your client to configure Impyla as described in
            "Configuring Impyla for authentication".
From a JDBC client.If you set up a Hive Virtual Warehouse for authentication, you
                        need to configure a few properties as described in "Configuring a Hive
                        Virtual Warehouse for authentication".
                        
                        Finally, you instruct your client to connect to your Hive  Virtual
                        Warehouse to use authentication from a JDBC client.


Generating a JWT token from the CDP sideTo give client users access to your Virtual Warehouse, you can generate a token in         Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) and provide the token to your client.Configuring the Impala Virtual Warehouse for authenticationYou need to enable platform JWT authentication for your Impala Virtual Warehouse during creation or editing of the Virtual Warehouse. This action automatically configures the Impala Virtual Warehouse to support authentication using JWT tokens issued by the CDP JWT authentication provider.Configuring Impyla for authenticationYou can connect Impyla to the Impala Virtual Warehouse using the HTTP transport         protocol and JWT as the authentication mechanism. Configuring the Hive Virtual Warehouse for authenticationBefore setting up token-based authentication, you must configure a few HiveServer (HS2) properties and add a custom property.Parent topic: Configuring a Virtual Warehouse