Configuring the Hive Virtual Warehouse for authenticationCloudera Docs
Configuring the Hive Virtual Warehouse for  authentication
Before setting up token-based authentication, you must configure a few HiveServer (HS2) properties and add a custom property.


You must have acquired the JWT token through your Identity Provider (IDP). In
                    CDW Public Cloud, you use the Knox Token Generation service to generate the
                    token as described in "Acquiring a JWT Token".







In the CDW UI, in Overview, select a Hive Virtual
                    Warehouse, click , and click Edit.

In Details, click CONFIGURATIONS > HiveServer2.



Select hive-site from the drop-down list, search for
                        hive.server2.authentication. , and set the value to JWT
                    along with existing authentication protocols that are specified.
For example, 'LDAP,SAML,JWT'.

Search for hive.server2.authentication.jwt.jwks.skip.ssl.cert
                    and set the value to true.

Search for hive.server2.transport.mode and set the value to
                    http.

Search for hive.server2.authentication.jwt.jwks.url and, if
                    you find it, set the value to the JSON Web Key Sets (JWKS) URL, which is used to
                    sign the JWT token. For example,
                        https://myadmin-host/myadmin/homepage/knoxtoken/api/v1/jwks.json
If you do not find hive.server2.authentication.jwt.jwks.url,
                    click  and add it to hive-site as a
                    custom property, and then set the value to the JSON Web Key Sets (JWKS) URL.
                        You can fetch the JWKS URL by pasting the copied JWT token in the
                            jwt.io website. Paste the JWT token in the Encoded text
                        box of the Debugger and the decoded token header displays a jku parameter
                        that contains the URL. You can provide a comma-separated list of
                            jwks.json URL for this configuration. 

If you modify the JWKS URL, restart HiveServer. 


Parent topic: Configuring token-based authentication