Configuring Hive query isolation auto-scalingCloudera Docs
Configuring Hive query isolation auto-scaling
You can configure your Hive Virtual Warehouse to add dedicated executors to
        run scan-heavy, data-intensive queries, also known as ETL queries. You learn how to enable a
        Virtual Warehouse auto-scaling feature and set a query isolation parameter in the Hive
        configuration.  


You are familiar with the auto-scaling process.
You are creating a Hive Virtual Warehouse for running ETL-type queries.
In Cloudera Data Warehouse, you added a Hive Virtual Warehouse, configured the size of
                        the Hive Virtual Warehouse, and configured auto-suspend as described in previous topics.
                    
You obtained the DWAdmin role.


In this task, first you configure the same auto-scaling properties as described in
            the previous topic
            "Configuring
            Hive VW concurrency auto-scaling", and then you enable query isolation. Next, you set
            the hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold configuration
            parameter.

In Concurrency Auto-scaling properties, in Executors: Min: ,
                    Max:, limit auto-scaling by setting the minimum and maximum number of
                    executor nodes that can be added.






Choose when your cluster auto-scales up based on one of the following choices: 

HEADROOM
WAIT TIME


In Concurrency Autoscaling, enable Query
                    Isolation.
For example:


Two configuration options appear. 



In Max Concurrent Isolated Queries, set the maximum number of isolated queries
                    that can run concurrently in their own dedicated executor nodes.
 Select this number based on the scan size of the data for your average
                    scan-heavy, data-intensive query. 

In Max Nodes Per Isolated Query, set how many executor nodes can be spawned for
                    each isolated query.

Click CREATE.

In the Data Warehouse service UI, click 
                    Virtual
                        Warehouses, and find your Virtual Warehouse. Click
                        
                    Options  > CONFIGURATIONS > Hiveserver2
                    .




In Configuration files, select hive-site and set
                        hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold parameter to limit
                    how much data can be scanned.
For example, set 400GB.

Click APPLY.


Parent topic: Configuring auto-scaling