Tuning Impala auto-scalingCloudera Docs
Tuning Impala auto-scaling


When you tune Impala Virtual Warehouses, you can disable the auto-suspend feature,
            set the minimum and maximum executor nodes allocated for the warehouse and you can
            set the scale up and scale down delay which determines auto-scaling behavior.
Required role: DWAdmin


Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse service.

In the Data Warehouse service, navigate to the Overview page.

noteYou can also tune your warehouse on the Virtual Warehouse page using the same
                steps.


On the Overview page under Virtual Warehouses, click the
              edit icon for an Impala Virtual Warehouse in the upper right corner of the tile.

The next page provides properties that you can adjust to tune auto-suspend and 
              auto-scaling for your Virtual Warehouse:


Set the auto-suspend behavior:


If you do not want your Virtual Warehouse to auto-suspend, click Disable
                      AutoSuspend. If you enable this feature, your Virtual Warehouse does not
                      suspend itself, even if it is idle and no workloads are being processed.
                      
                    
If you do not want to disable auto-suspend, set the
                      AutoSuspend Timeout. This sets the time, in seconds,
                      that it takes for the Virtual Warehouse to automatically suspend itself. A
                      Virtual Warehouse auto-suspends itself when the auto-scaler has scaled back to
                      the last executor group and those executors are idle.
                    




Adjust the minimum  or maximum number of executor nodes as needed:

Setting and adjusting the minimum and maximum number of executor nodes per Virtual
                    Warehouse is very similar to setting the number of nodes for on-premises clusters.
                    Keep in mind the number of concurrent queries, the complexity of queries, and the
                    volume of queries in your workloads to determine the appropriate number of
                    executor nodes to set on each Virtual Warehouse instance.



Set the Scale Up Delay and the Scale Down
                  Delay to fine-tune when the auto-scaler starts scaling up and the
                  number of executor groups to meet workload demand.


Scale Up Delay: Sets the length of time in seconds
                      that the system waits before adding more executors when it detects queries
                      waiting in the queue to execute. The time to auto-scale up is affected by how
                      the underlying Kubernetes system is configured.
Scale Down Delay: Sets the length of time in seconds
                      that the system waits before it removes executors when it detects idle
                      executor groups. As with the Scale Up Delay setting,
                      the time to auto-scale down is affected by how the underlying Kubernetes
                      system is configured.





(Optional) If you need to tune your Impala Virtual Warehouse to run more queries
            per executor group, select Use Legacy Multithreading Mode.

noteBy default Impala Virtual Warehouses can run 3 large queries
                per executor group. Executors can handle more queries that are
                simpler and that do not utilize concurrency on the executor.
                When you enable legacy multithreading, the Virtual Warehouse can
                run 12 queries per executor group. For most read-only queries
                the default setting of 3 queries per executor group is sufficient.


Click Apply in the upper right of the page to
              save your changes.


Related informationImpala auto-scaling overviewTuning Virtual WarehousesParent topic: Configuring a Virtual Warehouse