Upgrading Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse Public CloudCloudera Docs
Upgrading Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse Public
    Cloud
You need to learn about the choices, requirements, and alerts for upgrading Database
    Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud.
Before you begin the upgrade

Obtain the DWAdmin role.


Take a look at the release notes for the following information:
Release notes, What's New

Known issues

Fixed issues

Version mapping

Older releases



Text and JSON configuration files
After upgrading, text and JSON configuration files in your upgraded Database Catalog and
        Virtual Warehouse are not upgraded. The pre-upgrade configurations are carried over to the
        upgraded Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouse. For example, in the Database Catalog > Configurations, the .yml file example below is not upgraded. Configurations, such as
        key/value configurations, that are not in a text or JSON file are not affected by this
        limitation. These configurations are upgraded.

Upgrade available indicator
Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouse must be compatible. The CDW upgrade framework
        understands the interoperability constraints between them, and generates alerts. Alerts
        appear as shown in the following example to indicate when upgrades are available for the
        Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouse:



You can also check for upgrades by selecting Upgrade from the
        options menu on the tile:




Latest releases versus compatible releases
A release is considered compatible with the current release if its dependents
        or dependencies do not need to be upgraded. Conpatible Database Catalogs do not need to be
        upgraded to function effectively with associated Virtual Warehouses. Compatible Virtual
        Warehouses do not need to be upgraded to function effectively with the associated Database
        Catalog.
Some releases contain changes that require upgrading associated components. For example, a
        Hive Virtual Warehouse might use new APIs introduced in a new release of the Hive
        metastore/Database Catalog. In this case, you must upgrade the Database Catalog that is
        associated with this Hive Virtual Warehouse. On the other hand, if you upgrade a Database
        Catalog, you are not required to upgrade its associated Virtual Warehouse. The
          Latest releases indicator appears in this case.
Depending on the available new releases and the current version of your Database Catalogs
        and Virtual Warehouses, one or both of the following choices for upgrading are displayed:
Latest version
Compatible version
 If the release is current, no upgrade choices appear.

Available upgrade choices
When you click Upgrade, you might see one of the following
        options:


Already up-to-date, which means there are no new releases that
            you can upgrade to:





Do you want to upgrade Database Catalog to compatible version
              X.X.X.X-XX?



A similar prompt appears when a compatible version of a Virtual Warehouse is available
            for upgrade.


If upgrading to the latest version causes dependent components to be upgraded as well,
            a detailed message might appear. For example:



A similar indication appears if you need to choose a compatible, or a later, version of
            the Virtual Warehouse.


Click Upgrade to start the upgrade process. The status of the upgrade appears:
          Upgrading, Starting, or
          Started.


