Rebuilding a Virtual WarehouseCloudera Docs
Rebuilding a Virtual Warehouse
 You can clean up resources and redeploy your Virtual Warehouse using your existing
        image, or the latest image. You might want to rebuild your
            Virtual Warehouse to get a feature in a later Virtual Warehouse image, to perform
            housekeeping, or to troubleshoot a problem.

Upgrading your Virtual Warehouse also rebuilds it. Rebuilding the Virtual Warehouse
                redeploys resources in the cluster while keeping the configurations and other
                settings you made.
                
Rebuilding a Virtual Warehouse has the following limitations:
Rebuilding deprecated versions of the Virtual Warehouse is not supported and will fail.
                
Rebuilding does not preserve the changes you made directly, using kubectl for
                        example, to cluster resources in the affected namespaces.Changes you make
                            to the Virtual Warehouse using either the UI or CDP CLI are
                            preserved.




You must obtain the DWAdmin role.
You must obtain the entitlement to use this
                    feature.
You must be running the version 2022.0.6-b92 or later
                    of the Virtual Warehouse to rebuild it.



Log in to the CDP web interface, navigate to Data Warehouse > Virtual Warehouses, and select your Virtual Warehouse.

Click .






Select Rebuild.

Rebuild the Virtual Warehouse.

If your Virtual Warehouse does not have the latest image, you see the
                        version number of your current image and can select Keep current
                            image version, and then click Rebuild Virtual
                            Warehouse. 


Alternatively, you can accept the default value for Keep
                            current image version, which is off, and then click
                            Rebuild Virtual Warehouse. The Virtual Warehouse
                        will be rebuilt using the latest image.  


If your Virtual Warehouse has the latest image, click Rebuild
                            Virtual Warehouse.



