Connecting CDW and KuduCloudera Docs
Connecting CDW and Kudu
You can configure an Impala Virtual Warehouse to connect to Kudu in Data Hub and then
  create tables stored in Kudu from Impala. You learn prerequisites, gather information for the
  configuration, and see the steps for making the connection. There are several advantages of
  running Kudu queries from CDW.
Running Kudu queries from an Impala Virtual Warehouse provides benefits, such as
     isolation from noisy neighbors, auto-scaling, and autosuspend. After configuring an Impala
     Virtual Warehouse to connect to Kudu, you can create Kudu tables using Hue or the
     Impala shell. Prerequisites
You must meet the following requirements:
Obtain the DWAdmin role.
Get permission to access Data Hub 7.2.15, or later, details to obtain Kudu
     cluster information.CDP Public Cloud Data Hub cluster 7.2.15, or later, is
      required 
Reactivate your AWS or Azure environment version to get 1.6.1-b258 with runtime 2023.0.13.20
     (released Feb 7, 2023) and use an Impala Virtual Warehouse. Alternatively, run a past release
      1.5.1-b110 with runtime 2022.0.12.0-90 or earlier, and perform additional Kubernetes
      configuration described in the next topic "Setting up a past release for a CDW-Kudu connection"
      (below), and use an Impala Virtual Warehouse.
noteYou can upgrade an existing Impala Virtual Warehouse with an older
        runtime version to 2023.0.13.20 or later. Set catalogd flagfile configuration
        enable_kudu_impala_hms_check to false if you upgrade. 

Activate the enviroment outside CDW, so you have an SDX-activated environment. The
     Database Catalog of an SDX-activated environment displays the SDX indicator for
     DATALAKE as shown below:





Gathering Kudu master FQDNsYou need to get the fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) of the Kudu master hosts in         your Data Hub cluster. You follow steps to navigate to the Kudu Master service and find the         FQDNs for configuring a CDW-Kudu connection.Configuring a CDW-Kudu connectionThe steps for making the connection involve setting a Impala coordinator property to         the fully qualfied domain names (FQDNs) of the Kudu master hosts.Parent topic: Configuring a Virtual Warehouse