Disabling metadata synchronizationCloudera Docs
Disabling metadata synchronization 
By default, metadata is synchronized when refreshed/invalided across multiple Impala
        Virtual Warehouses that share a Database Catalog. When you run a command to refresh a table
        or invalidate metadata in any one of these Impala Virtual Warehouses, metadata is
        refreshed/invalidated in parallel. You learn how to disable this feature if you do not want
        to synchronize metadata for some reason.
By default, running a command from an Impala Virtual Warehouse to refresh tables or
            invalidate metadata raises events in the Hive metastore. Catalog daemons process events
            synchronously across all Virtual Warehouses that share metadata. Metadata is
            refreshed/invalidated in parallel across all your Virtual Warehouses. The
            enable_reload_events configuration parameter enables or disables raising events for
            metadata synchronization, effectively enabling or disabling the synchronization:
enable_reload_events = true (default)
enable_reload_events = false
Metadata has to be synchronized when you make changes to the data that causes
                inconsistent file metadata. For example, external clients create, update, and delete
                partitioned files on the object store. To synchronize the file metadata in the
            catalog cache, you run a refresh/invalidate command in a single virtual warehouse. The
            catalog cache across all the Virtual Warehouses that share a Database Catalog is
            synchronized and consistent. In this task, you disable metadata
            synchronization.


The DWAdmin role is required to configure CDW.
An Impala Virtual Warehouse running 1.6.3-b319 (released May 5, 2023) or
                    later



Navigate to Data Warehouses > Virtual Warehouses, select your Impala Virtual Warehouse, and click 
                   Options  > Edit.

Click CONFIGURATIONS > Impala catalogd.

Select flagfile from the drop-down list, and configure
                    the enable_reload_events  key to the value false.






Apply the change.


Parent topic: Configuring a Virtual Warehouse