Managing jobs in Cloudera Data EngineeringCloudera Docs
Managing jobs in Cloudera Data Engineering
It is often necessary to modify your Cloudera Data Engineering
    (CDE) jobs. CDE makes it easy to modify most aspects of your jobs, including
    replacing the application code and any supplemental files, as well as
    modifying configuration parameters and the schedule.

importantThe user
                interface for CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to
                provide easy access to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for
                example, the Overview page has been replaced with the
                    Home page. You can also manage a job by clicking
                    Jobs on the left-hand menu, then selecting your desired
                Virtual Cluster from a drop-down at the top of the Jobs page.
                To view CDE Services, click Administration on the left-hand
                menu. The new home page still displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes
                quick-access links located at the top for the following categories:
                    Jobs, Resources, and
                    Download & Docs.


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) management console, click the
                        Data Engineering tile and click
                        Overview.

In the CDE Services  column, select the environment
                    containing the virtual cluster that your application is associated with.
In the Virtual Clusters column on the
          right, click the View Jobs icon on the virtual
          cluster containing the application you want to manage.Select Jobs from the left hand
          menu.Click on the name of the job you want to modify.The Run History tab lists the recent job
          executions for the application. Click the
            Configuration tab to display the job
          configuration.Click the Configure button to edit the
          application configuration.Edit the configuration parameters you want to change, including
          uploading a modified JAR or Python file if necessary.Click Advanced Configuration to see
          additional parameters and the job schedule. Make any necessary
          changes, and then click Update.

