Scheduling jobs in Cloudera Data EngineeringCloudera Docs
Scheduling jobs in Cloudera Data Engineering
Jobs in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) can be run on demand, or
    scheduled to run on an ongoing basis. The following instructions demonstrate
    how to create or modify a schedule for an existing job.

importantThe user interface for
        CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to provide easy access
        to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for example, the
        Overview page has been replaced with the
        Home page. You can also schedule a job from the new
        Home page by clicking Schedule a Job, or by
        clicking Jobs on the left-hand menu, then selecting your desired
        Virtual Cluster from a drop-down at the top of the Jobs page. To view
        CDE Services, click Administration on the left-hand menu. The new
        home page still displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links located at
        the top for the following categories: Jobs,
        Resources, and Download & Docs.


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the Data
          Engineering tile and click Overview.

In the CDE Services column, select the environment containing
          the virtual cluster where you want to schedule the job.

In the Virtual Clusters column on the right, click the
          View Jobs icon on the virtual cluster containing the job you want
          to schedule.

Click the Configure.

Click the Advanced Configurations link at the bottom of the page
          to view additional configuration parameters.

Click the Actions menu next to the application, and then click
          Configuration.

Select the Schedule toggle, and then set the Start
          time, End time, and Cron
            expression.
The start and end times designate the time frame for which the schedule is active. The
          Cron expression uses the cron scheduling syntax
          to specify when the application should run within the start and end times. For information
          and examples of the cron syntax, see the Cron
          entry on Wikipedia.

noteTimestamps must be specified in ISO-8601 UTC format
          ('yyyy-MM-ddTHH:mm:ssZ'). UTC offsets are not supported.
noteScheduled job runs start at the end of the
        first full schedule interval after the start date, at the end of the scheduled period. For
        example, if you schedule a job with a daily interval with a
          start_date of 14:00, the first scheduled run is triggered at the end of
        the next day, after 23:59:59. However if the start_date is set to 00:00, it
        is triggered at the end of the same day, after 23:59:59.


If you want to start a job immediately, check the Start job
          box.

Click Update to save your changes.

Select optional scheduling configurations:


Select Enable Catchup to kick off job runs for any data
              interval that has not been run since the last data interval. If this option is not
              selected, only the runs that start after the time that the job was created will be
              included.


Select Depends on Previous to ensure that each job run is
              preceeded by a successful job run.



Click Schedule.


