Prerequisites and limitationsCloudera Docs
Prerequisites and limitations
Learn about the supported versions for Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), Spark, and Data
    Lake to use with Apache Iceberg CDE.
 To use Apache Iceberg in CDE, you'll need the following prerequisites: 

Spark 3.2 or higher
A compatible version of Data Lake as listed in CDE and Data Lake compatibility linked
        below
CDE 1.16 or higher
noteOnly AWS is supported in CDE 1.16 (which supports Iceberg 0.13)
AWS or Azure is supported starting in CDE 1.17-h1 (which supports Iceberg 0.14)

Limitations


The use of Iceberg tables as Structured Streaming sources or sinks is not
            supported.
PyIceberg is not supported. Using Spark SQL to query Iceberg tables in PySpark is
            supported.



Iceberg table format version 2
Iceberg table format version 2 (v2) is available starting in Iceberg 0.14.
        Iceberg table format v2 uses row-level UPDATE and DELETE operations that add deleted files
        to encoded rows that were deleted from existing data files. The DELETE, UPDATE, and MERGE
        operations function by writing delete files instead of rewriting the affected data files.
        Additionally, upon reading the data, the encoded deletes are applied to the affected rows
        that are read. This functionality is called merge-on-read. 
To use Iceberg table format v2, you'll need the following prerequisites:

CDE 1.17-h1 or higher
Iceberg 0.14
Spark 3.2 or higher

With Iceberg table format version 1 (v1), the above-mentioned operations are only supported
        with copy-on-write where data files are rewritten in their entirety when rows in the files
        are deleted. Merge-on-read is more efficient for writes, while copy-on-write is more
        efficient for reads. noteUnless otherwise indicated, the operations
          in the subsequent documentation apply to both v1 and v2 formats.


Related informationCloudera Data Engineering and Data Lake compatibility versions
                        Parent topic: Using Apache Iceberg in Cloudera Data Engineering