Dynamic resource-based column masking in Hive with Ranger policiesCloudera Docs
Dynamic resource-based column masking in Hive with Ranger policies
You can use Apache Ranger dynamic resource-based column masking capabilities to
      protect sensitive data in Hive in near real-time. You can set policies that mask or anonymize
      sensitive data columns (such as PII, PCI, and PHI) dynamically from Hive query output. For
      example, you can mask sensitive data within a column to show only the first or last four
      characters.

Dynamic column masking policies are similar to other Ranger access policies for Hive.
            You can set filters for specific users, groups, and conditions. With dynamic
            column-level masking, sensitive information never leaves Hive, and no changes are
            required at the consuming application or the Hive layer. There is also no need to
            produce additional protected duplicate versions of datasets.
The following conditions apply when using Ranger column masking policies to mask data
            returned in Hive query results:


A variety of masking types are available, such as show last 4 characters, show
                  first 4 characters, Hash, Nullify, and date masks (show only year).


You can specify a masking type for specific users, groups, and conditions.


Wildcard matching is not supported.


Each column should have its own masking policy.


Masks are evaluated in the order listed in the policy.


An audit log entry is generated each time a masking policy is applied to a
                  column.




On the Service Manager page, select an existing Hive Service.

Select the Masking tab, then click Add New Policy.






On the Create Policy page, add the following information for the column-masking
               filter:

Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description




Policy Name
(required)

Enter an appropriate policy name. This name cannot be duplicated
                              across the system. The policy is enabled by default. 


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When override is
                              selected, the access permissions in the policy override the access
                              permissions in existing policies. This feature can be used with Add
                              Validity Period to create temporary access policies that override
                              existing policies. 



Hive Database
(required)


Type in the applicable database name. The auto-complete feature
                                 displays available databases based on the entered text.




Hive Table
(required)


Type in the applicable table name. The auto-complete feature
                                 displays available tables based on the entered text.




Hive Column
(required)


Type in the applicable column name. The auto-complete feature
                                 displays available columns based on the entered text.



Audit Logging
Audit Logging is set to Yes by default. Select No to
                              turn off audit logging. 


Description
Enter an optional description for the policy.


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Table 2. Mask Conditions




Label






Description






Select Role
Specify the roles to which this policy applies. 


Select Group 

Specify the groups to which this policy applies.
The public group contains all users, so granting access to
                                 the public group grants access to all users.



Select User
Specify one or more users to which this policy applies.


Access Types
Currently select is the only available access type.
                           


Select Masking Type

To create a row filter for the specified users, groups, and roles,
                                 click Select Masking Option, then select a masking type:
Redact – mask all alphabetic characters with "x" and
                                       all numeric characters with "n".
Partial mask: show last 4 – Show only the last four
                                       characters.
Partial mask: show first 4 – Show only the first four
                                       characters.
Hash – Replace all characters with a hash of entire
                                       cell value.
Nullify – Replace all characters with a NULL
                                       value.
Unmasked (retain original value) – No masking is
                                       applied.
Date: show only year – Show only the year portion of
                                       a date string and default the month and day to 01/01
Custom – Specify a custom masked value or expression.
                                       Custom masking can use any valid Hive UDF (Hive that returns
                                       the same data type as the data type in the column being
                                       masked).

Masking conditions are evaluated in the order listed in the policy.
                                 The condition at the top of the Masking Conditions list is applied
                                 first, then the second, then the third, and so on.








To move a condition in the Mask Conditions list (and therefore change the order in
               which it is evaluated), click the dotted rows icon at the left of the condition row,
               then drag the condition to a new position in the list.






Click Add to add the new column masking filter policy.

Parent topic: Row-level filtering and column masking in Hive