Configure a resource-based policy: HadoopSQLCloudera Docs
Configure a resource-based policy: HadoopSQL
How to add a new policy to an existing Hive service.  

On the Service Manager page, select an existing HadoopSQL service.

The List of Policies page appears. note Service_name
                     remains cm_hive. Display name is HadoopSQL.


Click Add New Policy.

The Create Policy page appears.





Complete the Create Policy page as follows:

Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description



Policy Name
Enter an appropriate policy name. This name cannot be duplicated
                              across the system. This field is mandatory. The policy is enabled by
                              default. 


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When override is
                              selected, the access permissions in the policy override the access
                              permissions in existing policies. This feature can be used with Add
                              Validity Period to create temporary access policies that override
                              existing policies. 


 Database

Type in the applicable database name. The autocomplete feature
                                 displays available databases based on the entered text.

Include is selected by default to allow access. Select
                                    Exclude to deny access..



table/udf

Specifies a table-based or UDF-based policy. 
Select table or udf, then type in the applicable table or UDF name.
                                 The autocomplete feature displays available tables based on the
                                 entered text.

Include is selected by default to allow access. Select
                                    Exclude to deny access.



 column

Type in the applicable column name. The autocomplete feature
                                 displays available columns based on the entered text.

Include is selected by default to allow access. Select
                                    Exclude to deny access.



URL

Specify the cloud storage path (for example
                                    s3a://dev-admin/demo/campaigns.txt) where the
                                 end-user permission is needed to read/write the Hive data from/to a
                                 cloud storage path.
Permissions: READ operation on the URL permits the user to perform
                                 HiveServer2 operations which use S3 as data source for Hive tables.
                                 WRITE operation on the URL permits the user to perform HiveServer2
                                 operations which write data to the specified S3 location.



URI

Hive INSERT OVERWRITE queries require a Ranger URI
                                 policy to allow write operations, even if the user has write
                                 privilege granted through HDFS policy. 
Failure to specify this field will result in the following error:
                                    Error while compiling statement: FAILED:
                                    HiveAccessControlException Permission denied: user [jdoe] does
                                    not have [WRITE] privilege on [/tmp/*]
                                    (state=42000,code=40000)
Example value: /tmp/*



Description

(Optional) Describe the purpose of the policy.



Hive Service Name

hiveservice is used only in conjunction with
                              Permissions=Service Admin. Enables a user who has Service Admin
                              permission in Ranger to run the kill query API: kill query
                                    <queryID>
. Supported value: *. (Required)


Audit Logging
Specify whether this policy is audited. (De-select to disable
                              auditing).


Policy Label
Specify a label for this policy. You can search reports and filter
                              policies based on these labels.


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Table 2. Allow Conditions




Label






Description






Select Role
Specify the roles to which this policy applies. To designate a
                                 role as an Administrator, select the Delegate Admin check
                                 box. Administrators can edit or delete the policy, and can also
                                 create child policies based on the original policy.


Select Group 

Specify the groups to which this policy applies. 
To designate a group as an Administrator, select the Delegate
                                    Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                 policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                 policy.
The public group contains all users, so granting access to
                                 the public group grants access to all users.noteUsers have Select permission on Hive
                                    tables (only) by default. If you want to use Spark to access
                                    Hive tables, you must :
grant database-only, Select permission for the table's
                                          database to let Spark access table data  




Select User

Specify the users to which this policy applies. 
To designate a user as an Administrator, select the Delegate
                                    Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                 policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                 policy.



Permissions

Add or edit permissions: Select, Update, Create, Drop, Alter,
                                 Index, Lock, All, ReplAdmin, Service Admin, Temp UDF Admin,
                                 Refresh, RW Storage, Select/Deselect All.
Service Admin is used in conjunction with Hive Service Name and the
                                 kill query API: kill query
                                       <queryID>
.



Delegate Admin
You can use Delegate Admin to assign administrator privileges to
                              the roles, groups, or users specified in the policy. Administrators
                              can edit or delete the policy, and can also create child policies
                              based on the original policy.




You can use the Plus (+) symbol to add additional conditions. Conditions are
               evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The condition at the top of the list is
               applied first, then the second, then the third, and so on.

You can use Deny All Other Accesses to deny access to all other users,
               groups, and roles other than those specified in the allow conditions for the policy.
            

Click Add.


Provide User Access to Hive Database Tables from the Command Line
Hive provides the means to manage user access to Hive database tables directly from the
            command line. The most commonly-used commands are:


GRANT
Syntax:
grant <permissions> on table <table> to user <user or group>;
For example, to create a policy that grants user1 SELECT permission on the table
                  default-hivesmoke22074, the command would be:
grant select on table default.hivesmoke22074 to user user1;
The syntax is the same for granting UPDATE, CREATE, DROP, ALTER, INDEX, LOCK, ALL,
                  and ADMIN rights.


REVOKE
Syntax:
revoke <permissions> on table <table> from user <user or group>;
For example, to revoke the SELECT rights of user1 to the table
                  default.hivesmoke22074, the command would be:
revoke select on table default.hivesmoke22074 from user user1;
The syntax is the same for revoking UPDATE, CREATE, DROP, ALTER, INDEX, LOCK, ALL,
                  and ADMIN rights.




Related informationWildcards and variables in resource-based policiesParent topic: Configuring resource-based policies