Configure a resource-based policy: NiFi RegistryCloudera Docs
Configure a resource-based policy: NiFi Registry
How to add a new policy to an existing Atlas service. 

On the Service Manager page, select an existing NiFi Registry service.
The List of Policies page appears. 

Click Add New Policy.
The Create Policy page appears.




Complete the Create Policy page as follows:

Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description



Policy Name
Enter an appropriate policy name. This name cannot be duplicated
                              across the system. This field is mandatory.


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When override is
                              selected, the access permissions in the policy override the access
                              permissions in existing policies. This feature can be used with Add
                              Validity Period to create temporary access policies that override
                              existing policies. 


NiFi Registry Resource Identifier
In a NiFi cluster, all nodes must be granted the ability to view
                              and modify component data in order for user to list or empty queues in
                              processor component outbound connections. With Ranger this can be
                              accomplished by using a wildcard to grant all of the NiFi nodes read
                              and write access to the /data/* NiFi resource.


Description
(Optional) Describe the purpose of the policy.


Audit Logging
Specify whether this policy is audited. (De-select to disable
                              auditing).


Policy Label
Specify a label for this policy. You can search reports and filter
                              policies based on these labels.


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Table 2. Allow Conditions




Label






Description






Select Role
Specify the roles to which this policy applies. To designate a
                                 role as an Administrator, select the Delegate Admin check
                                 box. Administrators can edit or delete the policy, and can also
                                 create child policies based on the original policy.


Select Group 

Specify the groups to which this policy applies. 
To designate a group as an Administrator, select the Delegate
                                    Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                 policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                 policy.
The public group contains all users, so granting access to
                                 the public group grants access to all users.



Select User

Specify the users to which this policy applies. 
To designate a user as an Administrator, select the Delegate
                                    Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                 policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                 policy.



Permissions
Add or edit permissions: Read, Write, Delete, Select/Deselect
                              All.


Delegate Admin
You can use Delegate Admin to assign administrator privileges to
                              the roles, groups, or users specified in the policy. Administrators
                              can edit or delete the policy, and can also create child policies
                              based on the original policy.




You can use the Plus (+) symbol to add additional conditions. Conditions are
               evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The condition at the top of the list is
               applied first, then the second, then the third, and so on.

You can use Deny All Other Accesses to deny access to all other users,
               groups, and roles other than those specified in the allow conditions for the policy.
            

Click Add.


Related informationNiFi Ranger based policy descriptionsParent topic: Configuring resource-based policies