Dynamic tag-based column masking in Hive with Ranger policiesCloudera Docs
Dynamic tag-based column masking in Hive with Ranger policies
Where Ranger resource-based masking policy for Hive anonymizes data from a Hive column
      identified by the database, table, and column, Ranger tag-based masking policy anonymizes Hive
      column data based on tags and tag attribute values associated with Hive column (usually
      specified as metadata classification in Atlas).

The following conditions apply when using Ranger column masking policies to mask data
            returned in Hive query results:


A variety of masking types are available, such as show last 4 characters, show
                  first 4 characters, Hash, Nullify, and date masks (show only year).note Ranger depends on Hive/Impala's hashing functions for
                     hash masking.
Impala uses sha512 in FIPS mode, sha256 in non-FIPS mode.
Hive uses sha256. Plans to update to sha512 in FIPS mode.



You can specify a masking type for specific users, groups, and conditions.


Wildcard matching is not supported.


If there are multiple tag masking policies applied to the same Hive column, the
                  masking policy with the lexicographically smallest policy-name is chosen for
                  enforcement, E.G., policy "a" is enforced before policy "aa".


Masks are evaluated in the order listed in the policy.


An audit log entry is generated each time a masking policy is applied to a
                  column.




Select Access Manager  > Tag Based Policies, then select a tag-based service.

Select the Masking tab, then click Add New
                  Policy.






In Create Policy, add the following information for the
               column-masking filter:

Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description




Policy Type
(required)

Set to Masking by default.



Policy Name
(required)

Enter an appropriate policy name. This name cannot be duplicated
                              across the system. The policy is enabled by default. 


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When
                                 override is selected, the access permissions
                              in the policy override the access permissions in existing policies.
                              This feature can be used with Add Validity Period to create temporary
                              access policies that override existing policies. 



TAG
(required)


 Enter the applicable tag name, for example
                                    MASK.



Audit Logging
Audit Logging is set to Yes by default.
                              Select No to turn off audit logging. 


Description
Enter an optional description for the policy.


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Policy Conditions (applied at the policy level)

Click the + icon to add policy conditions. Currently
                                    "Accessed after expiry_date? (yes/no)" is
                                 the only available policy condition. 

"Accessed after expiry_date (yes/no)?": To
                                 set this condition, type yes in the text
                                 box, then click check mark to add the
                                 condition.

Enter boolean expression: Available for
                                 allow or deny conditions on tag-based policies. For examples and
                                 details, see Using Tag Attributes and Values in Ranger Tag-Based
                                    Policy Conditions.
Click Save to save the policy condition.
                              



Table 2. Mask Conditions




Label






Description






Select Role
Specify the roles to which this policy applies. 


Select Group 

Specify the groups to which this policy applies.
The public group contains all users, so
                                 granting access to the public group grants access to all users.



Select User
Specify one or more users to which this policy applies.


Policy Conditions (applied at the item level)

Click Add Conditions to add policy
                                 conditions. Currently "Accessed after expiry_date?
                                    (yes/no)" is the only available policy condition. 

"Accessed after expiry_date (yes/no)?": To
                                 set this condition, type yes in the text
                                 box, then click check mark to add the
                                 condition.

Enter boolean expression: Available for
                                 allow or deny conditions on tag-based policies. For examples and
                                 details, see Using Tag Attributes and Values in Ranger Tag-Based
                                    Policy Conditions.



Access Types
Currently select is the only available access
                              type for the hive component. 


Select Masking Option

To create a row filter for the specified users, groups, and roles,
                                 click Select Masking Option, then select a masking type:
Redact – mask all alphabetic
                                       characters with "x" and all numeric characters with "n".
Partial mask: show last 4 – Show only
                                       the last four characters.
Partial mask: show first 4 – Show
                                       only the first four characters.
Hash – Replace all characters with a
                                       hash of entire cell value.
Nullify – Replace all characters with
                                       a NULL value.
Unmasked (retain original value) – No
                                       masking is applied.
Date: show only year – Show only the
                                       year portion of a date string and default the month and day
                                       to 01/01
Custom – Specify a custom masked
                                       value or expression. Custom masking can use any valid Hive
                                       UDF (Hive that returns the same data type as the data type in
                                       the column being masked).

Masking conditions are evaluated in the order listed in the policy.
                                 The condition at the top of the Masking Conditions list is applied
                                 first, then the second, then the third, and so on.








Click + to add additional conditions. Conditions are
               evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The condition at the top of the list is
               applied first, then the second, then the third, and so on.

Click Add to add the new policy.

Related informationUsing tag attributes and values in Ranger tag-based policy conditionsParent topic: Row-level filtering and column masking in Hive