Ranger console navigationCloudera Docs
Ranger console navigation
Explains the basic Ranger console/GUI.


The Service Manager for Resource Based Policies page is displayed when you log in
              to the Ranger Console. You can use this page to create services for Hadoop resources
              (HDFS, HBase, Hive, etc.) and add access policies to those resources.



Clicking Access Manager in the top menu opens the
              Service Manager for Resource Based Policies page, and also displays a submenu with
              links to Resource Based Policies, Tag Based Policies, and Reports (this submenu is
              also displayed when you pass the mouse over the Access
                Manager link).






Access Manager > Resource Based Policies -- Opens the Service Manager for
                  Resource Based Policies page. You can use this page to create services for
                  resources (HDFS, HBase, Hive, etc.) and add access policies to those services.



Access Manager > Tag Based Policies -- Opens the Service Manager for Tag
                  Based Policies page. You can use this page to create tag-based services and add
                  access policies to those services. Using tag-based policies enables you to control
                  access to resources across multiple components without creating separate services
                  and policies in each component.



Access Manager > Reports -- Opens the Reports page. You can use this page
                  to generate user access reports for resource and tag-based policies based on
                  search criteria such as policy name, resource, group, and user name.



Audit -- You can use the Audit page to monitor user activity at the
                  resource level, and also to set up conditional auditing based on users, groups, or
                  time. The Audit page includes the Access, Admin, Login Sessions, Plugins, Plugin
                  Status, and User Sync tabs.






Security Zone -- Lets you organize resource and tag-based services and
                  policies into separate security zones. You can assign one or more administrators
                  for each security zone. Security zone administrators can then create and update
                  policies for their security zone. 






Settings -- Enables you to manage and assign policy permissions to users
                  and groups. Clicking or passing the mouse over Settings displays a submenu
                  with links to the Users/Groups/Roles and Permissions pages.






Parent topic: Using the Ranger Console