Enabling Ranger HDFS plugin manually on a Data HubCloudera Docs
Enabling Ranger HDFS plugin manually on a Data Hub
How to enable an HDFS plugin for Ranger, service-wide, on a Data Hub using Cloudera
        Manager. 

The Ranger HDFS plug-in helps to centralize HDFS authorization policies. Apache
                Ranger plugins validate the access of a user against the authorization policies
                defined in the Apache Ranger policy administration server, and stored in the HDFS
                service instance, also called a repository. When you enable the Ranger HDFS plugin
                and an HDFS service user attempts access, Ranger checks whether a policy exists
                granting or denying the user access. If no policy exists, Ranger defaults to use the
                native permissions model in HDFS. Access control rules configured through this
                combination of Ranger HDFS plugin and native file system permissions apply.
To enable users define Ranger authorization polices, using an HDFS service
                plugin:


In a DataHub, go to Cloudera Manager > HDFS > Configuration.

In Search, type Ranger Service,
                    then click the box to enable the hdfs (service-wide) parameter for Ranger
                    Service.

Figure 1. Enabling the HDFS Ranger plugin parameter on a Data Hub



A stale configuration icon displays for the hdfs service.Figure 2. Result of adding a new configuration parameter



Before restarting Hdfs service for stale configurations, choose HDFS > Actions > Create Ranger Repository. After progress completes, close the Create Repository
                    dialog.

Now proceed to restart the Hdfs service. Click HDFS > Actions > Restart. After progress completes, close the Restart dialog.

On the Data Lake, log in to Ranger.

Go to Admin Web UI > Access Manager.

In Service Manager > HDFS, confirm that (DataHub cluster name)_hdfs appears.

Figure 3. Confirming HDFS plugin added




Go to Audit > Plugins. 

Confirm that the Http response code for the Ranger Hdfs plugin enabled on the
            DataHub Hdfs service displays 200 (successful).

Figure 4. Confirming successful http response





