Configure a resource-based service: HBaseCloudera Docs
Configure a resource-based service: HBase
How to add an HBase service.

On the Service Manager page, click the Add icon () next to HBase.
The Create Service page appears. 



Enter the following information on the Create Service page:

Table 1. Service Details




Field name






Description







Service Name


The name of the service; required when configuring agents.




Description


A description of the service.




Active Status


Enabled or Disabled.



Select Tag Service
Select a tag-based service to apply the service and its tag-based
                              policies to HBase.  


Table 2. Configuration Properties




Field name






Description







Username


The end system username that can be used for connection.




Password


The password for the username entered above.




hadoop.security.authorization


The complete connection URL, including port and database name.
                                 (Default port: 10000.) For example, on the sandbox,
                                 jdbc:hive2://sandbox:10000/.




hbase.master.kerberos.principal


The Kerberos principal for the HBase Master. (Required only if
                                 Kerberos authentication is enabled.)




hbase.security.authentication


As noted in the hadoop configuration file hbase-site.xml.




hbase.zookeeper.property.clientPort


As noted in the hadoop configuration file hbase-site.xml.




hbase.zookeeper.quorum


As noted in the hadoop configuration file hbase-site.xml.




zookeeper.znode.parent


As noted in the hadoop configuration file hbase-site.xml.




Common Name for Certificate


The name of the certificate.
This field is interchangeably named Common Name For
                                    Certificate and Ranger Plugin SSL
                                    CName in Create Service pages.




Add New Configurations


Add any other new configuration(s).





Click Test Connection.

Click Add.


Parent topic: Configuring resource-based services