Configure a resource-based storage handler policy: HadoopSQLCloudera Docs
Configure a resource-based storage handler policy: HadoopSQL
How to configure a policy that allows authorized users to create data tables using
        storage-handlers.

Ranger includes “storage-type” and “storage-url” resources in HadoopSQL Service that
                support only the “RW Storage ” permission. Ranger authorizes users to create or
                alter tables against this resource policy. Users are allowed to create/alter the
                table in the respective storage if they have the required “RW Storage” permission on
                the resource representing the storage-type and storage-url .


Select the HadoopSQLservice on the Service Manager
                    page.

The List of Policies HadoopSQL page appears. note
                            Service_name remains cm_hive. Display name is HadoopSQL.


Select Add New Policy to create a new policy.


Within Create Policy, select
                                storage-type as shown in the following
                            example:







Complete the required* fields.


Under Allow Conditions, select users and add the
                            RW Storage permission, as shown in the preceeding example.


Scroll to the bottom of Create Policy, then
                            click Add.



To configure an existing policy named all - storage-type, storage-url,  click
                        Edit.

The Edit Policy page appears.





Complete the Edit Policy page as follows:

Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description



Policy Name
Enter an appropriate policy name. This name cannot be
                                        duplicated across the system. This field is mandatory. The
                                        policy is enabled by default. 


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When
                                            override is selected, the access permissions in
                                        the policy override the access permissions in existing
                                        policies. This feature can be used with Add Validity Period
                                        to create temporary access policies that override existing
                                        policies. 


Policy Label
Specify a label for this policy. You can search reports
                                        and filter policies based on these labels.


 storage-type

Type in the applicable storage type.

* allows athorizes users to create any table in
                                            the spcified storage type..



storage url 

Type in the applicable storage URL.

* allows athorizes users to create any table in
                                            the spcified storage URL. Select Exclude to deny
                                            access.



Description

(Optional) Describe the purpose of the policy.



Audit Logging
Specify whether this policy is audited. (De-select to
                                        disable auditing).


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Table 2. Allow Conditions




Label






Description






Select User

Specify the users to which this policy applies. 
To designate a user as an Administrator, select the
                                                Delegate Admin check box. Administrators can
                                            edit or delete the policy, and can also create child
                                            policies based on the original policy.



Permissions

Add or edit permissions: RW Storage, You can assign read
                                            and select permissions to rangerlookup user.



Delegate Admin
You can use Delegate Admin to assign administrator
                                        privileges to the roles, groups, or users specified in the
                                        policy. Administrators can edit or delete the policy, and
                                        can also create child policies based on the original
                                        policy.




Example StorageHandler Policy Definitions and Use
                Cases:
HBase StorageHandler policy:
Storage Type: hbase
Storage URL: hbase-cluster:port/hbase-table
Storage create table
                        command:CREATE [EXTERNAL] table foo(…)
STORED BY‘org.apache.hadoop.hive.hbase.HBaseStorageHandler’
TBLPROPERTIES (‘hbase.table.name’ = ‘bar’);

e.g:
CREATE TABLE hive_hbase_test_1(key int, value string) STORED BY 'org.apache.hadoop.hive.hbase.HBaseStorageHandler' WITH SERDEPROPERTIES ("hbase.columns.mapping" = "cf:string", "hbase.table.name" = "hbase_test_1");



Phoenix StorageHandler policy:
Storage Type: phoenix
Storage URL: phoenix-cluster:port/table-name
Storage create table
                        command:CREATE [EXTERNAL] TABLE phoenix_table (
	  s1 string,
	  i1 int,
	  f1 float,
	  d1 double
	)
STORED BY 'org.apache.phoenix.hive.PhoenixStorageHandler'
TBLPROPERTIES (
	  "phoenix.table.name" = "phoenix_table",
	  "phoenix.zookeeper.quorum" = "localhost",
	  "phoenix.zookeeper.znode.parent" = "/hbase",
	  "phoenix.zookeeper.client.port" = "2181",
	  "phoenix.rowkeys" = "s1, i1",
	  "phoenix.column.mapping" = "s1:s1, i1:i1, f1:f1, d1:d1",
	  "phoenix.table.options" = "SALT_BUCKETS=10, DATA_BLOCK_ENCODING='DIFF'"
	);


 Kafka StorageHandler policy:
Storage Type: kafka
Storage URL: bootstrap-server:port/kafka-topic 
 JDBC StorageHandler policy:
Storage Type: jdbc:mysql 
Storage URL: mysql-host:port/DBname/Table , or
Storage URL: mysql-host:port/DBname/*note
Policy and table definitions must be in sync regarding the port
                                definition, even for default port numbers. For example, if port
                                number 3306 is defined in the policy for mysql and this port number
                                is left out from the URL as default value for the JDBC Driver, you
                                must use the same reference as defined in the policy when creating
                                the external table.
Using an explicit table name allows only to reference that specific
                                table with hive.sql.table while using * allows not only to reference
                                any tables from the database but also allows you to write a custom
                                query against this database, for example using hive.sql.query.

Storage create table
                        command:CREATE [EXTERNAL] TABLE student_jdbc
(
  name string,
  age int,
  gpa double
)
STORED BY 'org.apache.hive.storage.jdbc.JdbcStorageHandler'
TBLPROPERTIES (
    "hive.sql.database.type" = "MYSQL",
    "hive.sql.jdbc.driver" = "com.mysql.jdbc.Driver",
    "hive.sql.jdbc.url" = "jdbc:mysql://localhost/sample",
    "hive.sql.dbcp.username" = "hive",
    "hive.sql.dbcp.password" = "hive",
    "hive.sql.table" = "STUDENT",
    "hive.sql.dbcp.maxActive" = "1"
);



Parent topic: Configuring resource-based policies