Tags and policy evaluationCloudera Docs
Tags and policy evaluation
When authorizing an access request, an Apache Ranger plugin evaluates applicable
        Ranger policies for the resource being accessed. The following diagram shows the details of
        the policy evaluation flow. More details on the steps in this workflow are provided in the
        subsequent sections.Apache Ranger Policy Evaluation Flow with Tags






Finding Tags
Apache Ranger supports a service to register context enrichers, which are used to
                update context data to the access request.
The Ranger Tag service, which is part of the tag-based policies feature, adds a
                context enricher named RangerTagEnricher. This context enricher is responsible for
                finding tags for the requested resource and adding the tag details to the request
                context. This context enricher keeps a cache of the available tags; while processing
                an access request, it finds the tags applicable for the requested resource and adds
                the tags to the request context. The context enricher keeps the cache updated by
                periodically polling Ranger Admin for changes.

Evaluating Tag-Based Policies
Once the list of tags for the requested resource is found, the Apache Ranger policy
                engine evaluates the tag-based policies applicable to the tags. If a policy for one
                of these tag results in a deny, access will be denied. If none of the tags are
                denied, and if a policy allows for one of the tags, access will be allowed. If there
                is no result for any tag, or if there are no tags for the resource, the policy
                engine will evaluate the resource-based policies to make the authorization
                decision.

Using Tags in Conditions
Apache Ranger allows the use of custom conditions while evaluating authorization
                policies. The Apache Ranger policy engine makes various request details – such as
                user, groups, resource, and context – available to the conditions. Tags in the
                request context, which are added by the enricher, are available to the conditions
                and can be used to influence the authorization decision.
The default policy in tag service instances, the EXPIRES_ON tag, uses such condition
                to check to see if the request date is later than the value specified in tag
                attribute expiry_date. This default policy does not work unless an EXPIRES_ON tag
                has been created in Atlas.

Related informationApache Ranger Wiki> Context EnrichersParent topic: Ranger Policies Overview