Adding and Configuring Record Reader and Writer Controller ServicesCloudera Docs
Adding and Configuring Record Reader and Writer Controller Services
NiFi provides Record Reader and Writer Controller Services to support record-based
      processing. These Controller Services are new services that allows you convert events from one
      type (JSON, XML, CSV, Avro) to another. These Controller Services use the Schema Registry to
      fetch the schema for the event to do this conversion. Before using these new Controller
      Services, you must configure them for use with Schema Registry.
You can configure Controller Services either globally, before you have created a Process
        Group, or at any time, on a per-Process Group basis.

Steps for Adding Controller Services globally


To access Controller Services configuration dialog for gobal configuration, click the
               Global Menu at the top right of your canvas, and select
               Controller Settings.
Click the + icon to display the NiFi
               Settings dialog.
Use the Filter box to search for the Controller Service you want
            to add, select that service, and click Add.


Steps for Adding Controller Services Per Process
        Group


Click on your Process Group, and then right-click anyway on your canvas.
Click Configure to display the Process Group
               Configuration dialog.
Click the Controller Services tab, and then click
               + to display the Add Controller Service
            dialog.
Use the Filter box to search for the Controller Service you want
            to add, select that service, and click Add.


Steps for Configuring Record Reader and Writer Controller Services
          for Integration with Schema Registry


From the Process Group Configuration view, click the
               Edit icon from the right-hand column. This displays the
               Configure Controller Service dialog.
Click the Properties tab.
The Schema Access Strategy specifies how to obtain the schema using
            for interpreting FlowFile data. To ensure integration with Schema Registry, configure
               Schema Access Strategy with one of the following two values:

HWX Schema Reference Attributes – The NiFi FlowFile is given a set of 3
                     attributes to describe the schema:

schema.identifier


schema.version


schema.protocol.version





HWX Content-Encoded Schema Reference – Each NiFi FlowFile contains a reference
                     to a schema stored in Schema Registry. The reference is encoded as a single
                     byte indicating the protocol version, 8 bytes indicating the schema identifier
                     and 4 bytes indicating the schema version.


The Schema Write Strategy specifies how the schema for a record
            should be added to FlowFile data. To ensure integration with Schema Registry, configure
               Schema Write Strategy with either HWX Schema Reference
               Attributes orHWX Content-Encoded Schea Reference.


Parent topic: Integrating with NiFi