Defining custom tagsCloudera Docs
Defining custom tags
In the Management Console user interface, you can define tenant-level or
        environment-level custom tags across all instances and resources provisioned in your
        organization’s cloud provider account. 
Resource tagging
When you create an environment or other resources shared across your cloud provider
                account, CDP automatically adds default tags to the Cloudera-created resources in
                your cloud provider account. You can also define additional custom tags that CDP
                applies to the cluster-related resources in your account.
Default tags
By default, CDP applies certain tags to cloud provider resources whenever you create
                the resource, for example an environment.
CDP applies the following tags by default:


Cloudera-Resource-Name: the workload-appropriate Cloudera resource
                        name. For example, an IPA CRN for an IPA, a data lake CRN for a data lake,
                        or a Data Hub CRN for a Data Hub cluster. This CRN serves as a unique
                        identifier for the resource over time.
Cloudera-Creator-Resource-Name: Cloudera resource name of the CDP
                        user that created the resource.
Cloudera-Environment-Resource-Name: name of the environment with
                        which the resource is associated.


Custom tags
There are two types of custom tags that you can define in the Management Console:
                tenant-level tags that apply to Cloudera-created resources across your
                organization's entire cloud provider account, and environment-level tags.
In the Management Console user interface, you can define tenant-level tags across all
                instances and resources provisioned in your organization's cloud provider account.
                These resources include not only provisioned instances, but disks, networks, and
                other resources as well. In your cloud provider account you can search or filter on
                either the tag key or value. Tenant-level tags cannot be overridden during
                environment creation.
In addition to tenant-level tags, you can also define environment-level tags.
                Environment-level tags are inherited by the resources specific to an environment.
                For example, environment-level tags are inherited by the following resources:


FreeIPA
Data lakes
Data Hubs
Operational Databases


As with tenant-level tags, you can search or filter on the key tag or key value in
                your cloud provider account.

noteCDP applies custom tags during creation of the resources. For example, you can
                    only define environment-level tags during environment registration. If you want
                    to add or update cloud provider resource tags, you must do so through the cloud
                    provider API.

For more information about using tags on cloud provider resources, consult AWS,
                Azure, or Google Cloud documentation. It is your responsibility to ensure that your
                tags meet your cloud provider requirements.

Supported services
While some CDP services such as Data Hub inherit environment-level tags, others
                require that you add tags when provisioning or enabling the data service. The
                following table shows how tags can be added for various CDP services:



CDP service
How to add tags



Data Lake
Inherits tenant or environment level tags.


FreeIPA
Inherits tenant or environment level tags.


Data Hub
Inherits tenant or environment level tags and you can add
                                    more tags when creating a Data Hub.


Operational Database
Inherits tenant or environment level tags and you can add
                                    more tags when creating a COD database via CLI.




Defining tenant-level tags 
Required roles: PowerUser can define tags for the whole tenant.

EnvironmentAdmin or Owner can set environment telemetry settings
                    for a specific environment.

Steps


In the Management Console, click Global Settings > Tags.
Click Add.
Define both a key and a value for the tag. Both the key and the value must
                        be between 4- 255 characters, with the following restrictions:
Key
Allowed characters are hyphens (-), underscores (_), lowercase
                                    letters, and numbers. 
                                     Keys must
                                    start with a lowercase letter and must not start or end with
                                    spaces.
Value
Allowed characters are hyphens (-), underscores (_), lowercase
                                    letters, and numbers. Values must not start or end with spaces.
                                    You can configure variables in the
                                        {{{variableName}}} format.

Click Add, and if necessary repeat the process for
                        additional tags.
                            noteTenant-level tags are applied only to resources created
                                    after you define the tag. Any changes to the tag value do
                                not propagate to existing resources that have the tag.




Defining environment-level tags 
You define environment-level tags during environment registration. 
Required roles: EnvironmentCreator can set tags for a specific
                environment during environment registration.
Steps

In the Management Console, click Environments > Register Environment.
Proceed through the environment registration steps.
After you define data access, add any environment-level tags by clicking
                        Add and defining the tag key and value. 



Related informationLabel formatParent topic: Managing an environment