Exporting your time series data into a another storage systemCloudera Docs
Exporting your time series data into a another storage system
Learn how to create remote storage configurations that can be added to one or
        multiple Prometheus instances that enable the export of the Prometheus time series data into
        another storage system. This enables you to view the metrics collected on your environment,
        Control Plane, or both, in your own Observability system at a later time.

Describes how to create a metrics configuration that sends the metrics gathered from
                either your environment, Control Plane, or both to your remote storage. You can then
                view the replication health and related metrics from the Cloudera Monitoring Grafana
                remote storage dashboards: 
The Control Plane Prometheus Remote Storage Stats dashboard, which enables
                        you to inspect the overall health of your Prometheus remote storage by
                        visually displaying information about the CDP Control Plane’s Prometheus
                        metric replication status.
The Environment Prometheus Remote Storage Stats Dashboard, which enables you
                        to inspect the overall health of your Environment’s remote storage by
                        visually displaying information about your Environment's Prometheus metric
                        replication status.




Verify that you are logged in to the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console as a
                    user with EnvironmentAdmin privileges. 

The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing page, select
                    the Management Console tile.

The Management Console home page opens.


From the Navigation panel, select Administration and
                    then select the Metrics tab. 

Click Add Metrics Configuration. 
The Add Configuration dialog box opens.

In the Name field, enter a unique name that is easily
                    identifiable for the remote storage configuration.

In the Address field, enter the endpoint URL of the
                    remote storage system where the metrics are to be sent. 

From the Source list, select the Management Console services you require for
                    the configuration. By default, the Control Plane and all environments option is
                    enabled. 

noteIf you select multiple environments or one
                        environment and the Control Plane, then your remote storage must support
                        multi-tenancy.


Verify that the Enabled toggle switch is set to
                        On. 

From the Auth Method section, select the authentication
                    access option that is required to access your remote storage. By default
                        None is enabled:


If you require no authentication access, do nothing. 
If you require authentication access using a username and password,
                            select Basic and then enter the username and
                            password that can access your remote storage in the aforementioned
                            fields. 
If you require authentication access with a bearer token, select
                                Header and in the Type
                            field, enter the authentication header type, such as Bearer, and in the
                                Credentials field, enter the access key
                            credentials.



(Optional) In the Custom Headers Name and
                        Value fields, enter the HTTP header key-value pairs
                    that are included as part of the remote write request.

importantHeaders set by Prometheus must not
                        be overwritten.


(Optional) To change the TLS settings between CDP Private Cloud and your remote
                    storage, expand the Advanced Options section and do one of
                    the following: 


If you do not require a secure connection between your CDP Private Cloud
                            deployment and the server that hosts your remote storage, set the
                                Skip TLS verification (insecure) switch to
                                On. 
If you require a mutual TLS verification between your CDP Private Cloud
                            deployment and the server that hosts your remote storage, set the
                                Skip TLS verification (insecure) switch to
                                Off and provide the following credentials:
In the Client Certificate field, enter
                                    your client identification credentials that authenticates access
                                    to the server that hosts your remote storage. 
In the Client Key field, enter the
                                    private key that encrypts communication between CDP Private
                                    Cloud and the server that hosts your remote storage. 
In the Server Name field, enter the IP
                                    address of the server on which your remote storage system is
                                    installed.




Click Add Configuration. 
The configuration is created and is displayed in the
                        Metrics table, which displays the Status, Name,
                    Address, Authentication Method, and the Source for your remote configuration.
                

To edit, disable, or remove a configuration, in the
                        Metrics table, click the configuration’s ellipsis icon
                    and select the required action.

(Optional) To view the replication status and related metrics in the pre-built
                    Cloudera Monitoring Grafana dashboards do one or more of the following: 


To visually display the Control Plane Prometheus Remote Storage Stats
                                dashboard:
From the Navigation panel in Management
                                        Console, select Dashboard
                                    and then click Monitoring Dashboard.The
                                        CDP Control Plane dashboard opens.
Locate the Control Plane Prometheus Remote Storage Stats
                                    dashboard by clicking the current dashboard’s title, and then
                                    either selecting the dashboard from the
                                        General list, or in the
                                        Search field, enter the name of the
                                    dashboard and press Enter. The Control
                                        Plane Prometheus Remote Storage Stats dashboard
                                    opens.

To visually display the Prometheus Remote Storage Stats dashboard for an
                            environment: 
From the Navigation panel in the Management
                                        Console, select
                                    Environments.
Locate the environment required and in it's row, click
                                        Monitoring Dashboard.The
                                        environment's Cloudera Grafana Overview dashboard
                                    opens.
Locate the Prometheus Remote Storage Stats dashboard for the
                                    environment you require by clicking the current dashboard’s
                                    title, and then either selecting the dashboard from the
                                        General list, or in the
                                        Search field, enter the environment
                                    name and from the list that appears, select the environment's
                                    Prometheus Remote Storage Stats dashboard. The environment's
                                        Prometheus Remote Storage Stats dashboard opens.





