Example for finding parent object for assigned classification or termCloudera Docs
Example for finding parent object for assigned classification or term
You can view and search for Atlas entities by using the assigned name for the
  classification / term.
When you create an entity and assign a classification or term to the entity, the immediate
   parent of the assigned classification / term is displayed when you hover over the
   classification/term. The parent-child relationship lineage appears in the “assigned @parent1,
    parent2, parent3” format, depending upon the number of parent-child relationships. Click the
   assigned classification and term to view the details.
As an example, assume that there is an entity called hdfs_path for which a
   classification named “Classification1_1” is assigned. Under the “Classification” tab on
   the Atlas UI, you can search for the list of classifications > child classifications
    > child classifications > and so on.
The following image provides an example of how a classification is listed in
   Atlas.



The classification named Classification1_1 has parent classifications named
    Classification1 and Dimension respectively.
In the following image, the parent classifications are displayed on an entity for which
    Classification1_1 is assigned.



Note that hovering over the assigned classification displays the parent-child
   relationship. In this example: Classification1_1@(Classification1,Dimension,ETL)
Clicking on the assigned classification navigates to the classification details
   page.



The following image provides an example of how Glossary > Terms are
   listed in Atlas.



The term named g2_t1 has a parent term named g1, which is displayed on
   an entity for which g2_t1 is assigned. The parent term is visible for the assigned term in
   the “assigned term@parent Glossary” format. In this example: g2_t1@g1. Clicking on
   the assigned term navigates to the Term details page.



The respective entity pages for classification and term are as shown in the following
   images:






noteOn the Term details page, you can assign terms to “Relation Types” on
   the “Related Terms” tab. The assigned term can be related to other terms. When you hover
   over the term, the assigned term displays in the “termname@glossaryname” format.




Parent topic: Creating classifications