Working with Atlas classifications and labelsCloudera Docs
Working with Atlas classifications and labels
Add metadata to Atlas entities using labels and
    classifications.
You can add metadata to Atlas entities to help your organization find,
      organize, and share your understanding of the data assets that drive
      business processes. Atlas provides two mechanisms for adding metadata to
      entities: labels and classifications. Both labels and classifications can
      be applied to entities to help describe the entity's content, status, or
      other business-driven value. 


Labels
Labels are words or phrases (strings) that you can associate with an
          entity and reuse for other entities. They are a light-weight way to
          add information to an entity so you can find it easily and share your
          knowledge about the entity with others. Anyone can create labels
            and associate labels with entities. 
Classifications
Classifications are strings like labels, with added complexity and
          structure: 
Atlas includes precise search tools for finding entities using
              classifications.
Classifications can automatically propagate to additional
              entities through lineage relationships.
You can use classifications to drive access control policies in
              Ranger. 
You can enrich a classification with attributes in the form of
              key-value pairs and set the value to describe a particular
              entity.
Administrators can control who can create and assign
          classifications through Atlas policies in Ranger. 
In short, use labels for annotating entities; use classifications to
      involve entities in processes inside and outside Atlas.
More about classifications: attributes
You can add key-value pairs, or attributes to the
        definition of a classification. A typical use for classification
        attributes would be to refine the meaning of a general category. Data
        assets identified with a classification of “PII” or Personally
        Identifiable Information can have classification attributes that
        indicate the nature of the information to drive data masking or
        expiration policies. Columns tagged with “PII” might be further
        separated into phone numbers, credit card numbers, and “other.” A Ranger
        policy based on the classification can use the attribute values to
        identify masks for the phone and credit card numbers and to block
        columns tagged as “PII” with attribute “Other.”


Planning for classifications and labels
Here are some questions to help you think about how you define
      classifications and labels in your system:

Will you use the metadata to drive a workflow outside of Atlas? If so,
          use a classification. If not, a label may work fine.
Do you need the text of the metadata to be exact values? You can
          limit who has the ability to create classifications: you can manage a
          single list for an organization. The ability to apply a classification
          to an entity can be controlled separately from defining
          classifications, which let's you potentially allow more users to
          applying the "official" classifications. Any users can create and add
          labels to entities, so it may be more difficult to standardize the
          content of labels.
What types of entities do you expect the metadata to apply to?
          Labels can be added to any entity type; classifications can be defined
          to apply to a specific entity type. If you define a classification to
          only to apply to certain entity types, such as table columns, make
          sure that the name and description helps data stewards use the
          classification correctly. 
Are you adding metadata to make Atlas searches easier? Consider
          using classifications with attributes to allow refinement of search
          results. If your Atlas users are more likely to search using
            terms, you might consider connecting the classification
          to a glossary term so searches from either mechanism return the
          correct results. (Assigning the term to an entity automatically
          assigns the classification to the same entity.) For both labels and
          classifications, consider setting guidelines so everyone creating
          metadata uses the same conventions: underscores or hyphens? detail
          first or last? table-level metadata or column-level?
Do you want a classification to follow lineage relationships and
          be assigned automatically as data is used in other entities? If not,
          you can use the classification description to help data stewards
          understand that they should turn off propagation when assigning this
          classification to entities or terms. Labels do not propagate.



Text-editor for Atlas parametersIn Atlas, while creating Classification, Glossary, and Business    metadata, a new text editor is available, which can also be used for adding and customizing   string attribute values of Business metadata on the Entity details page.