Configure the HBase client serviceCloudera Docs
Configure the HBase client service
You can add Controller Services to provide shared services to be used by the
        processors in your data flow. In the case of data ingest into HBase, use a Controller
        Service to configure the HBase client service.  

When ingesting data into HBase in CDP Public Cloud, use the
                    HBase_2_ClientService Controller Service.
You must define the Controller Services for the processors in your data flow in the
                configuration of the root process group where they will be used. 


To add a Controller Service to your flow, right-click on the Canvas and select
                        Configure from the pop-up menu. This displays the
                        Controller Services Configuration window.

Select the Controller Services tab.

Click the + button to display the Add
                        Controller Service dialog.






Select the required Controller Service and click
                    Add.






Perform any necessary Controller Service configuration tasks by clicking the
                        Configure icon in the right-hand column.






When you have finished configuring the options you need, save the changes by
                    clicking the Apply button.

Enable the Controller Service by clicking the Enable
                    button (flash) in the far-right column of the Controller
                        Services tab.

In this example, we are ingesting data into HBase, and will configure the
                HBase_2_ClientService Controller Service to create the HBase
            client service. For ingest data flows configure HBase_2_ClientService
            with the following required information. For a complete list of configuration
            properties, see the Controller Service documentation. 

Property
Description
Example value for ingest data flow



Kerberos Principle

Specify the user name that should be used for
                                    authenticating with Kerberos.
Use your CDP workload username to set this
                                    Authentication property.


srv-hbase-ingest-user 



Kerberos Password

Provide the password that should be used for
                                    authenticating with Kerberos.
Use your CDP workload password to set this
                                    Authentication property.


password



Hadoop Configuration Files

Comma-separated list of Hadoop Configuration files, such
                                        as hbase-site.xml and
                                        core-site.xml for kerberos, including
                                    full paths to the files.

These are the files you downloaded in
                                    Obtain the HBase connection details.

noteYou can also use the KerberosPasswordUserService
                controller service instead of entering the Kerberos principle and
            password.

Related informationHBase_2_ClientServiceParent topic: Ingesting Data into HBase