Collecting Data Lake diagnostics via Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Collecting Data Lake diagnostics via Cloudera Manager
Cloudera Manager can collect system status, configuration details, logs, and other
    information from a Data Lake cluster into a zip file to send to Cloudera Support.
To help with solving problems when using Cloudera Manager on your data lake cluster, Cloudera
      Manager can collect diagnostic data. You can choose to trigger this collection to aid with
      resolving a problem, or you can configure Cloudera Manager to send a diagnostic bundle to
      Cloudera on a regular schedule. Cloudera Support analyses the diagnostic information to
      proactively identify problems.
To trigger creation of a diagnostic bundle for a Data Lake, navigate to the Cloudera
        Manager UI that manages the Data Lake cluster. In the lower section of the left navigation
        pane, choose Support > Send Diagnostic Data and set the options in the dialog box that opens.
Specifically:

Log in to CDP web interface.
In the left navigation panel, click Environments, and then search
        for the appropriate environment and click the environment name.
In the environment detail page, open the Data Lake tab.
Open Cloudera Manager by clicking its link in the Services
          section.
In the bottom of the left navigation pane, click Support > Send Diagnostic Data.
Choose whether to send the diagnostic bundle to Cloudera automatically or only to
          collect the bundle. If the Cloudera Manager host does not have an internet connection,
            you may want to collect the bundle then move it to a host with access to the
            internet.
If appropriate, enter a Cloudera Support case number.
Select the Data Lake cluster if this instance of Cloudera Manager is managing more than
          one cluster.
If appropriate, limit the diagnostic collection to a single host, service, or role.
            Open the Restrict log and metrics collection and choose the
            Data Lake host, service, or role for which you want to collect diagnostics.
Set the logic for what data to collect, by target size or by date range. If you
            choose a target size, set the end time to a time to a few minutes after the event that
            you are trying to capture diagnostics for. The time range is based on the timezone of
            the host where Cloudera Manager Server is running.
Add a comment to describe the reason for collecting the diagnostic data.
Start the collection by clicking Collect Diagnostic Data or
            Collect and Upload Diagnostic Data.The Cloudera Manager task
            dialog appears to track the jobs involved in collecting diagnostics.
When the collection tasks are complete, click Download to save
          the diagnostic bundle locally.


Related informationDiagnostic Data Collection in Cloudera ManagerCollecting Usage and Diagnostic DataParent topic: Checking CDP logs