Credential creation errors on AWSCloudera Docs
Credential creation errors on AWS
The following section lists common issues
      related to creating a credential on AWS and steps to resolve them.
User: arn:aws:iam:::user/assume-only-user is not authorized to perform:
            sts:AssumeRole
Error: The following error occurs when creating a role-based AWS credential:

User: arn:aws:iam:::user/assume-only-user is not authorized to perform: sts:AssumeRole

Solution: The error occurs when CDP is not authorized to use the role that you
            are trying to register as part of cloud credential creation. The most common reason for
            this error is that when creating the cross-account IAM role you did not provide the AWS
            account ID. Refer to the documentation for creating a role-based credential on AWS for
            correct steps to create a cross-account IAM role.

Internal error when creating an AWS credential from CDP CLI
Error: The following error occurs when creating a role-based AWS credential via
            CDP
            CLI:An error occurred: An internal error has occurred. Retry your request, but if the problem persists, contact us with details by posting a message on the Cloudera Community forums. (Status Code: 500; Error Code: UNKNOWN; Service: environments; Operation: createAWSCredential; Request ID: dbf1fb6f-3161-46e1-80e9-a894461ceec3;)  
Solution: A common reason for this error is that the external ID that you used
            for your cross-account IAM role is associated with another user. The external ID is tied
            to the CDP user who obtained it; Therefore, only the user who obtained the external ID
            is able to complete the credential creation flow in CDP with a given external ID. If a
            CDP user tries using an IAM role with an external ID obtained by another CDP user, CDP
            will return this error message. To resolve the issue, log in to CDP CLI, obtain a new
            external ID, create a new cross-account IAM role, and then try creating the credential
            again. 


Related informationCreate a cross-account IAM role