Ranger AD IntegrationCloudera Docs
Ranger AD Integration
A conceptual overview of Ranger-AD integration architecture.
Ranger AD Integration: Architecture Overview



When a Ranger plugin for a component (such as HBase or HDFS) is activated, Ranger is in
            full control of any access. There is two-way communication between the Ranger plugin and
            the Ranger (Admin) Policy Server (RPS):

Plugins to RPS: Ranger plugins regularly call the RPS to see if new
                  policies were defined in the Ranger Administration Portal (RAP). Generally it
                  takes approximately 30 seconds for a policy to be updated. 

RPS to components: The RPS queries the component for meta objects that live
                  on the component to base policies upon (this provides the autocomplete and
                  drop-down list when defining policies).

The first communication channel (Plugin to RPS) is essential for the plugin to function,
            whereas the second (RPS to components) is optional. It would still be possible to define
            and enforce policies without the second channel, but you would not have autocomplete
            during policy definition.
Configuration details on both communication channels are configured in both Cloudera
            Manager and in the Ranger Administration Portal.
Example for HDFS plugin on a kerberized cluster:



The Kerberos principal short name for the HDFS service,"hdfs", is the one that is
            involved the second communication channel (RPS to components) for getting metadata from
            HDFS (such as HDFS folders) across. The settings on the HDFS configuration must match
            those set in Ranger (by selecting Access > Manager > Resource Based Policies,
            then selecting the Edit icon for the HDFS service:



To verify the second communication channel (RPS to components) click Test
               Connection for the applicable service (as shown above for the HDFS service). A
            confirmation message appears if the connection works successfully. 
To verify if the paramount first communication channel (Plugins to RPS) works, select
               Audit > Plugins in Ranger:




Ranger AD Integration: Ranger Audit
Ranger plugins furthermore send their audit event (whether access was granted or not and
            based on which policy) directly to the configured sink for audits, which can be HDFS,
            Solr or both. This is indicated by the yellow arrows in the architectural graph.
The audit access tab on the RAP (Audit > Access) is only populated if Solr is
            used as the sink.



This screen points out an important Ranger feature. When the plugin is enabled AND no
            specific policy is in place for access to some object, the plugin will fall back to
            enforcing the standard component-level Access Control Lists (ACLs). For HDFS that would
            be the user : rwx / group : rwx / other : rwx ACLs on folders and files.
Once this defaulting to component ACLs happens, the audit events list a " - " in the
            Policy ID column instead of a policy number. If a Ranger policy was in control of
            allowing/denying access, the policy number is shown.

Ranger AD Integration: Overview
Rangers AD Integration has 2 levels:

Ranger UI authentication (which users can log in to Ranger itself).
Ranger user/group sync (which users/groups to define policies for)




Ranger UI authenticationReference information on Ranger UI authentication, when configuring Ranger AD         integration.Ranger UI authorizationReference information on Ranger UI authorization, when configuring Ranger AD       integration.