Configure Ranger authentication for ADCloudera Docs
Configure Ranger authentication for AD
How to configure Ranger to use Active Directory (AD) for user
      authentication.

noteIn CDP Public Cloud, identity management is provided by FreeIPA, and configured using
            the Management Console. Therefore for CDP Public Cloud you should leave the Admin
            Authentication Method set to the UNIX authentication settings. For more information on
            FreeIPA, see Managing FreeIPA in the Identify Management documentation. 


Select Cloudera Manager > Ranger > Configuration, type authentication in
                  Search.
Ranger authentication property settings display. You may need to scroll down
               to see the AD settings. 



Configure the following settings for AD authentication, then click Save
                  Changes.



Property
Description
Default value
Sample values



Admin Authentication Method
The Ranger authentication method.
UNIX
ACTIVE_DIRECTORY



Admin AD Auth Base DN
 ranger.ldap.ad.base.dn 

The Distinguished Name (DN) of the starting point for directory
                              server searches.
N/A
dc=example,dc=com



Admin AD Auth Bind DN
ranger.ldap.ad.bind.dn

The full Distinguished Name (DN), including Common Name (CN) of an
                              LDAP user account that has privileges to search for users. 
 N/A
cn=adadmin,cn=Users,dc=example,dc=com



Admin AD Auth Bind Password
ranger.ldap.ad.bind.password

Password for the bind.dn. 
N/A
Secret123!



Admin AD Auth Domain Name
ranger.ldap.ad.domain

The domain name of the AD Authentication service.
N/A
 example.com



Admin AD Auth Referral
ranger.ldap.ad.referral*

See below.
ignore
follow | ignore | throw



Admin AD Auth URL
ranger.ldap.ad.url


The AD server URL, for example:
 ldap://<AD-Servername>Port

N/A
ldap://<AD-Servername>Port



Admin AD Auth User Search Filter
ranger.ldap.ad.user.searchfilter

AD user search filter. 
N/A





* There are three possible values for ranger.ldap.ad.referral:
follow
throw
ignore
The recommended setting is: follow.
When searching a directory, the server might return several search results, along
                  with a few continuation references that show where to obtain further results.
                  These results and references might be interleaved at the protocol level.
When ranger.ldap.ad.referral is set to
                              follow:
 The AD service provider processes all of the normal entries first, and
                           then follows the continuation references.
When ranger.ldap.ad.referral is set to
                              throw:
All of the normal entries are returned in the enumeration first, before
                              theReferralException is thrown.
By contrast, a referral error response is processed
                           immediately when this property is set to follow or
                              throw.
When ranger.ldap.ad.referral is set to
                              ignore:
The server should return referral entries as ordinary entries (or plain
                           text). This might return partial results for the search. In the case of
                           AD, a PartialResultException is returned when referrals
                           are encountered while search results are processed.




Related informationCloudera Management ConsoleParent topic: Configuring Ranger Authentication with UNIX, LDAP, AD, or PAM