Cloudera Data Engineering auto-scalingCloudera Docs
Cloudera Data Engineering auto-scaling
Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) auto-scales at the job level as well
    as the service and virtual cluster level. Service and virtual cluster
    autoscaling uses Apache Yunikorn (Incubating) for resource
    scheduling to improve efficiency and utilization, reducing cloud provider
    costs. Job auto-scaling is managed by Apache Spark dynamic allocation. CDE
    scales resources up and down as needed for running jobs.

Service and virtual cluster auto-scaling
 Service and virtual cluster autoscaling uses Apache Yunikorn (Incubating) for resource scheduling to improve
      efficiency and utilization
When you create a Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service, you specify
        an instance type (size) and auto-scale range of instances. Virtual
        clusters associated with the CDE service use CPU and memory resources as
        needed to run jobs. When more resources are required, virtual machines
        of the specified instance type are started. When resources are no longer
        required, instances are terminated.
Virtual clusters also have auto-scaling controls, specified as maximum
        CPU cores and memory (in gigabytes).
CDE takes advantage of YuniKorn resource scheduling and sorting policies, such as gang scheduling and bin packing, to optimize resource utilization and
        improve cost efficiency.
By default, CDE uses the bin packing policy to allocate resources. It sorts the list of
        nodes ascending by the amount of available resources and the node with the lowest
        amount of available resources is selected. Sorting is solely based on an array of available
        memory in MBs and available CPUs in milli CPUs (mCPU), considering absolute numbers only. It
        disregards resource types and percentage of total resources available. For example, if you
        have three nodes with the following amounts of available resources:


Node
Available memory in MB
Available CPU in mCPU



nodeA
100,000
4,000


nodeB
4,000
10,000


nodeC
10,000
10,000


YuniKorn makes the following sorting:


nodeB
4,000
10,000


nodeA
4,000
100,000


nodeC
10,000
10,000


If bin packing does not provide optimal results for the applications you run,
        consider selecting one of the other available sorting policies.
For more information on gang scheduling, see the Cloudera blog post
          Spark on Kubernetes – Gang Scheduling
          with YuniKorn.



Job auto-scaling
Job auto-scaling is controlled by Apache Spark dynamic
      allocation.
Dynamic allocation scales job executors up and down as needed for
        running jobs. This can provide large performance benefits by allocating
        as many resources as needed by the running job, and by returning
        resources when they are not needed so that concurrent jobs can
        potentially run faster.
Resources are limited by the job configuration (executor range) as well
        as the virtual cluster auto-scaling parameters. By default, the executor
        range is set to match the range of CPU cores configured for the virtual
        cluster. This improves resource utilization and efficiency by allowing
        jobs to scale up to the maximum virtual cluster resources available,
        without manually tuning and optimizing the number of executors per
        job.


