Apache Atlas dashboard tourCloudera Docs
Apache Atlas dashboard tour
Quick introduction to the Atlas user interface and terms.
The Atlas user interface is a metadata dashboard with two parts:
Search panel on the left.
Detail panel on the right where search results appear, and, when you drill into a 
        specific entity, the details for that entity are displayed. Each detail page has a header 
        section and a series of tabbed panels, all of which are oriented to the metadata for that 
        entity type.

Searching
The search panel has three tabs for searching: the general Search tab, and 
      predefined searches based on Classifications and Glossary terms. 
      In the general Search tab, you choose from existing lists of metadata types to 
      narrow the search results. Switching to the Advanced search lets you enter specific 
      search queries; both basic and advanced searches can be saved for easy
      reuse.

In the Classification tab, selecting a classification displays all the entities that are 
        marked with that classification. Find a specific classification using the search box or 
        browse through the classification hierarchy that you define when you
        create classifications. 
        
In the Glossary tab, selecting a term displays all the entities that are marked with that 
          term. Find a specific term using the search box or browse through terms by glossary. 
          You can also find specific terms using the category view: browse through the hierarchy 
          you build of your organization’s business glossary; when you select a category, the 
          display pane shows the terms assigned to the category. When you select one of those 
          terms, Atlas displays the entities associated with that term.
When you run a search and Atlas returns results, you see a paged-list
        of entities that match the search criteria. From here, you can go back
        to the search options and further refine your search or use controls to
        change how the search results are presented.


Viewing entity details
When you click a link for an entity in the search results, Atlas opens
        an entity detail page that includes the metadata collected for the
        entity. The detail page organizes the entity content in tabs:

Properties
The Properties tab includes the system metadata collected for this
        entity and any user-defined properties added. It also contains a list of
      labels applied to the entity. You can use values from any of the "string"
      data type properties to find this entity using free-text search.
Lineage
Atlas UI displays a lineage graph for each entity. The graph appears in
        the Lineage tab in the entity details page. For data asset
        entities, the lineage graph shows when the entity was an input or an output from an
      operation. For process entities, the lineage graph shows all input and output
      entities used by or produced by the operation.
Relationships
This tab lists the other entities that are associated with this entity
        as "relationships". You can show the list of related entities as a list
        or as a graph. Use this tab to navigate among
        entities. The special relationship types "input" and "output"
        include the entities that make up lineage.
Classifications
The Classifications tab shows the classifications associated with this
        entity (which are also shown in the top section of the detail page). It allows you to add, update, or remove
        classifications from the entity. Note that to manage classifications,
        you need to be granted privileges to perform classification actions. 
Audits
Atlas records the changes that occur to entity metadata. The changes
        are listed in the Audit tab in the entity details page. Audits show when
      Atlas updates the entity's metadata, including the following changes:
      
Classifications added or removed
Entity attributes updated
Labels added, updated, or removed
Relationships added, updated, or removed
Glossary terms added or removed


Schema
When the current entity is a table, the Schema tab appears and lists
        columns in the table. Use this tab to drill into a specific column or to
      add classifications to columns (no need to open the detail page for the
      column to add a classification).



