Using metadata for cluster governanceCloudera Docs
Using metadata for cluster governance
Concepts for collecting, creating, and using metadata.
What is Apache Atlas?
Atlas is a metadata management and governance system designed to help
        you find, organize, and manage data assets. Atlas creates “entities” or
        metadata representations of objects and operations in your data lake.
        You can add business metadata to these entities so you can use business
        vocabulary to make it easier to search for specific assets.


Apache Atlas uses metadata to create lineage relationships
Atlas reads the content of the metadata it collects to build
        relationships among data assets. When Atlas receives query information,
        it notes the input and output of the query and generates a lineage map
        that traces how data is used and transformed over time. This
        visualization of data transformations allows governance teams to quickly
        identify the source of data and to understand the impact of data and
        schema changes.

Adding to entity metadata makes searching easier
Atlas manages classifications and labels that
        you create and use to enhance the metadata for data assets. You can
        create and organize classifications and labels to use for anything from
        identifying data cleansing stages to recording user comments and
        insights on specific data assets. When you use classifications, the
        Atlas Dashboard makes it easy to search, group, report, and further
        annotate the entities you label. Classifications themselves can be
        organized into hierarchies to make them easier to manage.
Atlas also provides an infrastructure to create and maintain business ontologies to label 
          your data assets. Atlas’ “glossaries” include “terms” so you can build agreed-upon lists for 
          department- or organization-wide vocabulary to identify and manage data. Adding a term 
          gives you a single-click report of entities identified by that term.

Apache Atlas architecture
Atlas runs as an independent service in a Hadoop environment. Many
        Hadoop data processing and storage services include Atlas add-ons that
        publish metadata for the services’ activities to a Kafka message topic.
        Atlas reads the messages and stores them in JanusGraph to model the
        relationships among entities. The datastore behind JanusGraph is HBase.
        Atlas stores a search index in Solr to take advantage of Solr’s search
        functionality.

Pre-defined hooks exist for Hive, Impala, Kafka, NiFi, Spark, and
        Sqoop.
Atlas also provides “bridges” that import metadata for all of the
        existing data assets in a given source. For example, if you start Atlas
        after you’ve already created databases and tables in Hive, you can
        import metadata for the existing data assets using the Hive bridge.
        Bridges use the Atlas API to import the metadata rather than publishing
        messages to Kafka.
If you need a hook or bridge to automate collecting metadata from
        another source, use the Atlas Java API to create a custom Atlas addon. 
noteGovernance through Apache Atlas is just one element of a secure production cluster:
        Cloudera supports Atlas only when it runs on a cluster where Kerberos is enabled to
        authenticate users.


