Metric AggregationCloudera Docs
Metric Aggregation
In addition to collecting and storing raw metric values, the Cloudera Manager Service
    Monitor and Host Monitor produce a number of aggregate metrics from the raw metric data. 
Where a
      raw data point is a timestamp value pair, an aggregate metric point is a timestamp paired with
      a bundle of statistics including the minimum, maximum, average, and standard deviation of the
      data points considered by the aggregate.
Individual metric streams are aggregated across time to produce statistical
      summaries at different data granularities. For example, an individual
      metric stream of the number of open file descriptors on a host will be
      aggregated over time to the ten-minute, hourly, six-hourly, daily and
      weekly data granularities. A point in the hourly aggregate stream will
      include the maximum number of open file descriptors seen during that hour,
      the minimum, the average and so on. When servicing a time-series request,
      either for the Cloudera Manager UI or API, the Service Monitor and Host
      Monitor automatically choose the appropriate data granularity based on the
      time-range requested.
Cross-Time Aggregate Example
Consider the following fd_open raw metric values for a host:
9:00, 100 fds
9:01, 101 fds
9:02, 102 fds
. . . 
9:09, 109 fds
The ten minutely cross-time aggregate point covering the ten-minute
        window from 9:00 - 9:10 would have the following statistics and metadata:
min: 100 fds
min timestamp: 9:00
max 109 fds
max timestamp 9:09
mean 104.5 fds
standard deviation: 3.02765 fds
count: 10 points
sample: 109 fds
sample timestamp: 9:09
The Service Monitor and Host Monitor also produce cross-entity
        aggregates for a number of entities in the system. Cross-entity aggregates are produced by
        considering the metric value of a particular metric across a number of entities of the same
        type at a particular time. For each stream considered, two metrics are produced. The first
        tracks statistics such as the minimum, maximum, average and standard deviation across all
        considered entities as well as the identities of the entities that had the minimum and
        maximum values. The second tracks the sum of the metric across all considered entities.
An example of the first type of cross-entity aggregate is the fd_open_across_datanodes metric. For an HDFS
        service this metric contains aggregate statistics on the fd_open metric value for all the DataNodes in the
        service. For a rack this metric contains statistics for all the DataNodes within that rack,
        and so on. An example of the second type of cross-entity aggregate is the total_fd_open_across_datanodes metric. For an
        HDFS service this metric contains the total number of file descriptors open by all the
        DataNodes in the service. For a rack this metric contains the total number of file
        descriptors open by all the DataNodes within the rack, and so on. Note that unlike the first
        type of cross-entity aggregate, this total type of cross-entity aggregate is a simple
        timestamp, value pair and not a bundle of statistics.

Cross-Entity Aggregate Example
Consider the following fd_open raw metric values for a set of ten DataNodes in an HDFS service at a
        given timestamp:

datanode-0, 200 fds
datanode-1, 201 fds
datanode-2, 202 fds
…
datanode-9, 209 fds

The cross-entity aggregate fd_open_across_datanodes point for that HDFS service at that time would have the
        following statistics and
        metadata:min: 200 fds
min entity: datanode-0
max: 209 fds
max entity: datanode-9
mean: 204.5 fds
standard deviation: 3.02765 fds
count: 10 points
sample: 209 fds
sample entity: datanode-9

Just like every other metric, cross-entity aggregates are aggregated
        across time. For example, a point in the hourly aggregate of fd_open_across_datanodes for an HDFS service will
        include the maximum fd_open value of any
        DataNode in that service over that hour, the average value over the hour, and so on. A point
        in the hourly aggregate of total_fd_open_across_datanodes for an HDFS service will contain statistics on
        the value of the total_fd_open_across_datanodes for that service over the hour.


Parent topic: Cloudera Manager Metrics