Changing compactor configuration for Hive Virtual Warehouses on CDW Private CloudCloudera Docs
Changing compactor configuration for Hive Virtual Warehouses on CDW Private Cloud
To enhance performance, the compactor is a set of background processes that compact
    delta files, which are created as a by-product of data modifications. When it runs, it
    incurs additional load on the Hive Virtual Warehouse assigned as the compactor in Cloudera Data
    Warehouse (CDW) Private Cloud. You can change which Hive warehouse performs compaction to load-balance
    this workload as necessary.
    
In CDW Private Cloud, data compaction is performed on HiveServer2, which equates to
      the Hive Virtual Warehouse construct in the UI. This means that compaction is essentially
      query execution. Compaction runs an INSERT statement created from the output of a SELECT
      statement and runs in the Hive Virtual Warehouse assigned as the compactor, thereby re-writing
      the data. The Hive Virtual Warehouse, configured as the compactor, delivers the query capacity
      to perform this. Therefore, when you size the Hive Virtual Warehouse that performs compaction,
      you must take into consideration the extra workload to run the compaction queries. That extra
      workload needs to be considered in addition to your other query workloads on the Hive Virtual
      Warehouse that is configured as the compactor.importantAll compaction tasks for
        the warehouses that use the default Database Catalog, which is the Database Catalog
        automatically created for you when you activate an environment for CDW, are performed on CDP
        Base and do not affect the performance of Virtual Warehouses that use the default Database
        Catalog. For all other Database Catalogs that you create, you must consider the compaction
        query workload for the Hive Virtual Warehouse that performs compaction
      tasks.
One of the Hive Virtual Warehouses must be configured as the compactor for the
      associated Database Catalog (excluding the default Database Catalog whose commpaction is
      performed on CDP Base). This Hive Virtual Warehouse compactor runs all of the compaction
      queries for all Virtual Warehouses that use one particular Database Catalog, including Impala
      Virtual Warehouses. However, Impala Virtual Warehouses cannot be configured as the compactor
      Virtual Warehouse for a Database Catalog. Compaction tasks must be assigned to a Hive Virtual
      Warehouse. The first Hive Virtual Warehouse you create against a Database Catalog is
      automatically set as the compactor. If you decide you do not want that particular warehouse to
      take on the compaction workload, you can set another Hive Virtual Warehouse to perform the
      compaction workload by following these steps:

Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse service.

On the Overview page, select the Hive Virtual Warehouse that you
          want to set as the compactor, and click .

In the options menu, select Set Compactor.


Related informationCDW requirements for Private CloudParent topic: Compaction in Cloudera Data Warehouse