Compactor processesCloudera Docs
Compactor processes
These background processes run inside the metastore and HiveServer2 in Cloudera Data
    Warehouse (CDW) Private Cloud. They support the data modifications made as a result of ACID
    transactions.

Initiator

This process runs in the metastore, which equates to the Database Catalog construct in
            the CDW UI, and discovers which tables and partitions are due for compaction. By
            default, it runs every 5 minutes.
importantFor the default Database Catalog, which is
            the Database Catalog created automatically when an environment is activated, all
            compaction takes place on CDP Base.
To change this interval:

Identify the Database Catalog for the Virtual Warehouse on which you want to change
              the compaction interval by selecting the Virtual Warehouse tile. The associated
              Database Catalog is highlighted.
Go to Database Catalog >  > Edit > CONFIGURATIONS > Metastore and select hive-site from the drop-down
              menu.
Search for the hive.compactor.check.interval
KEY.
Add your preferred check interval in the associated VALUE
              field in seconds.
Click Apply Changes. The services are automatically updated
              with the new configuration.


Worker
This process runs in HiveServer2, which equates to the Hive Virtual Warehouse construct
          in the CDW UI. The worker process performs the actual compacting work. In CDW, compaction
          runs an INSERT statement created from the output of a SELECT statement, thereby re-writing
          the data to new base or delta files.
Cleaner
This process runs in the metastore and deletes delta files after compaction and after it
          determines the files are no longer needed. By default, the cleaner runs every 5 seconds
          (5,000 milliseconds). The check occurs on the visibility ID/transaction ID, which is a
          global transaction identifier.


Parent topic: Compaction in Cloudera Data Warehouse