Compaction observabilityCloudera Docs
Compaction observability
Compaction observability is a notification and information system based on metrics about
  the health of the compaction process. A healthy compaction process is critical to query
  performance, availability, and uptime of your data warehouse. You learn how to use compaction
  observability to prevent serious problems from developing. 
Compaction runs in the background. At regular intervals, Hive accesses the health of the
   compaction process and logs an error in the event of a problem. The assessment is based on
   metrics, such as the number of rows in the metadata table TXN_TO_WRITE_ID and the age of the
   longest running transaction (oldest_open_txn_age_in_sec). For example, if compaction isn't
   running the TXN_TO_WRITE_ID table in the HMS backend database becomes bloated and queries slow
   down. You use prebuilt Grafana dashboards to view alerts about compaction status, the issue, and
   recommended actions. The following list describes a few of more than 25 notifications:
Oldest initiated compaction passed threshold
Large number of compaction failures
More than one host is initiating compaction

Compaction alerts use metrics to provide the following information to help you proactively
   address the problems before the problems become an emergency: 
Warnings and errors that suggest next steps
Charted metrics
Hive logging

Compaction observability does not attempt to do root cause analysis (RCA) and does not attempt
   to fix the underlying problem. Compaction observability helps you quickly respond to symptoms of
   compaction problems. Factors unrelated to compaction per se can look like a compaction problem.
   For example, an underlying problem related to renewing a Kerberos ticket problem can surface as a
   compaction problem. Configuring kerberos to add authorization, changing the running user, or
   increasing the queue size might solve the problem. Compaction observability provides
   troubleshooting information. 
Compaction alerts are enabled by default in the Management Console and the
    compaction health data is collected by default. Alerts place no load on Hive. The data
   about compaction health is not stored for very long, and is not stored in Hive. The data is
   emitted from Hive, and a backend thread, which is configurable to run as often as you want,
   collects metrics in
   Prometheus.

Viewing a compaction alert using GrafanaLearn how to access Grafana dashboards from Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) to view         compaction alerts and take necessary actions to keep your cluster healthy. Alternatively, you can also access Grafana from the             Management Console.Configuring compaction alert rulesYou can use the Management Console to define and manage compaction alert rules for your   Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) deployment based on Prometheus expressions. The alerts are   automatically triggered when specific events occur in your deployment.Configure alert receiversAs an Administrator, you need to learn how to configure alert notifications that appear   in the user notification system. The notifications supplement alert information in charts on the   Hive Compaction Observability dashboard in Grafana. Learn how you can use the Management Console   for this configuration.