Query isolationCloudera Docs
Query isolation
Query isolation is an option you can set while creating a Hive Virtual Warehouse.
    Understand how you can enable query isolation to configure the SQL engine to isolate queries
    that involve lengthy scanning, how to determine the default scan size threshold, and the queries
    types that benefit from query isolation.
What is query isolation
Query Isolation enables you to isolate scan-heavy queries by dedicating
        compute resources to handle these scans, leaving other resources free to handle less
        intensive jobs, such as ad-hoc queries. When you enable query isolation, you can configure
        maximum concurrent isolated queries that a Hive Virtual Warehouse should support and maximum
        nodes that must be reserved for each isolated query. These parameters allow you to control
        resource usage and costs.

How query isolation works
While creating a Hive Virtual Warehouse, you select the value for Max Concurrent
          Isolated Queries, which corresponds to the 
          hive.query.isolation.max.queries property. Any query that exceeds the
          hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold value runs in isolation. An
        isolated standalone executor group is spawned to run the data-intensive query. Concurrency
        auto-scaling, auto-suspending, and auto-resume features of the core executor groups are not
        impacted by any isolated queries that are running.
After you specify the default scan size threshold, optimize your Virtual Warehouse using
        the controls described in Hive auto-scaling and enable query isolation for the Virtual
        Warehouse. When the query planner encounters a scan-heavy, data-intensive query whose scan
        size exceeds the value set for the threshold, it launches the query isolation feature. Query
        isolation automatically spawns an “on-demand” executor group with the estimated correct
        number of executors for the scan-heavy query.



When Analysts connect to Hive Virtual Warehouses using SQL applications such as Hue or
        other SQL clients that use JDBC or ODBC, the query is handled by HiveServer. First
        HiveServer generates a preliminary query execution plan that does not include distributing
        the query tasks across executors. The query planner also determines the data scan size of
        the query.
For standard BI-type queries with smaller scan sizes: HiveServer locates an available
            query coordinator in the Virtual Warehouse to handle the query.
For data-intensive queries with larger scan sizes: You can enable the query isolation
            feature and specify a scan size threshold when you are setting up your Virtual
            Warehouse. The query isolation feature spawns an on-demand executor group with the
            estimated correct number of executors to handle the single query. The executor group is
            limited in size by the values you specify for the query isolation parameters.


What query isolation is best suited for
Query isolation is designed for scan-heavy, data-intensive queries.

How query isolation is enabled
While creating or editing a Hive Virtual Warehouse, you can enable or disable query
        isolation and configure the following parameters:

Max Concurrent Isolated Queries
            (hive.query.isolation.max.queries)
Sets the maximum number of isolated queries that can run concurrently in their own
            dedicated executor nodes or the maximum number of queries that can spawn dedicated
            executor groups at one time. Select this number based on the scan size of the data for
            your average scan-heavy, data-intensive query. For example, if Max Concurrent
              Isolated Queries is set to 3 and a dedicated executor group is spawned for
            each data-intensive query, only 3 dedicated executor groups can be running at one time.
            If another data-intensive query is received, it must wait in a queue to run.
Max Nodes Per Isolated Query
              (hive.query.isolation.max.nodes.per.query)
Sets how many executor nodes can be created for each isolated data-intensive
            query.



How the default scan size threshold is determined
To determine the default scan size threshold
          (hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold), you need to calculate a
        threshold based on your Virtual Warehouse T-shirt size, and then set the default scan size
        parameter accordingly.
Multiply the executors in your Virtual Warehouse core executor group by the default data
        cache size. For example, for a MEDIUM-sized Virtual Warehouse, which has 20 executors, you
        set the scan size threshold to 20 x 200GB = 4TB.
Any query that scans more than 4TB of data runs in isolation, the number of executors
        spawned to run the query does not exceed the default setting for the
          hive.query.isolation.max.nodes.per.query parameter, which defaults to 2
        times the T-shirt size. For a MEDIUM-sized Virtual Warehouse, which has 20 executors, 40
        executors (2 x 20) are spawned to run the isolated query.
When the isolated query is running, if HiveServer receives another query, which scans less
        than 4 TB of data, the planner runs that query in the core executor group and does not spawn
        an isolated executor group to run it. If there is capacity in the core executor group, the
        query runs immediately or concurrency auto-scaling provisions more capacity in the core
        executor group.
Assuming the original data-intensive "scan-heavy" isolated query is still running, if
        HiveServer receives an additional "scan-heavy" query, which scans more than 4 TB of data,
        another isolated executor group is spawned to run the additional query. However, if two
        additional "scan-heavy" queries are received, unless the default value (2) is changed for
        the hive.query.isolation.max.queries parameter, one scan-heavy query runs,
        while the other is queued until execution of one of the other isolated queries is
        complete.
For more information about setting the default scan size threshold, see Tuning Hive Virtual
        Warehouses.

How the scan size threshold for Hive query isolation is set
Query Isolation enables your Virtual Warehouse to determine, based on the value you set for
        the hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold configuration parameter,
        whether to spawn dedicated nodes to run scan-heavy, data-intensive queries. You can set this
        threshold parameter in the Virtual Warehouses page as follows:
Log in to the Data Warehouse service as DWAdmin.
Go to Virtual Warehouse >  > Edit > CONFIGURATIONS > Hiveserver2 and select hive-site from the
              Configuration files drop-down menu.
Specify the value for the hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold
            parameter in the VALUE text box in storage units. For example,
            400 GB.
Click Apply Changes.



Parent topic: Hive warehouse configuration options