Auto-suspend Virtual WarehousesCloudera Docs
Auto-suspend Virtual Warehouses
AutoSuspend Timeout is an option you can set while creating a Virtual Warehouse.
  Understand how the auto-suspend timeout option works along with the auto-scaling settings on a
  Virtual Warehouse.
What is auto-suspend
AutoSuspend Timeout enables you to handle resources when the
    auto-scaler has scaled back to the last executor group. You can control the time that the
    original warehouse executor group idles after all other groups scale down and release their
    executors. The JDBC endpoint lives on to respond to queries from the result cache or statistics,
    but expensive executors no longer run.

How auto-suspend works
You set an auto-suspend timeout to configure how long a Virtual Warehouse idles before
    shutting down. Auto-suspend timeout is independent of the auto-scaling process and only applies
    to the original Virtual Warehouse and not to any additional warehouses that are created as a
    result of auto-scaling.
When no queries are sent to an executor group, resources scale down and executors are
    released. When all executor groups are scaled back, when executors are idle, and after a period
    of idle time (AutoSuspend Timeout), the Virtual Warehouse is suspended.
AutoSuspend Timeout sets the maximum time that the original warehouse
    executor group idles after all other executor groups have scaled down and released their
    resources. The JDBC endpoint is kept up and alive to keep the application connectivity and even
    respond to queries from the result cache or statistics where possible.
If a query is sent to a suspended Virtual Warehouse and if it cannot be answered from query
    result cache or statistics, then the query coordinator queues the query. When a queued query is
    detected, an executor group is immediately added to run the query on the Virtual Warehouse.
noteWhen the auto-scaler increases or decreases the number of
    executor groups in the Virtual Warehouse, it can take up to several minutes before the scaling
    up or down takes effect. This slight delay might be caused by the time required to start new
    executors on the OpenShift cluster or for queries running on existing executors to finish. If
    the OpenShift cluster is at or near capacity, then scaling up does not occur until cluster
    resources are freed.
By default, auto-suspend is enabled. You can disable it by turning on the Disable
     AutoSuspend option.


Parent topic: Hive warehouse configuration options