Auto-scale threshold settingsCloudera Docs
Auto-scale threshold settings
This topic provides information about the auto-scaling threshold settings for Hive and
    Impala Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Private Cloud.
When you create new Virtual Warehouse instances, you can set auto-scaling thresholds.
       These thresholds set limits on automatic cluster scaling to meet workload demands. Setting these limits
       prevents warehouses from consuming too many resources when workload demands increase or
       decrease. Another important benefit of enabling auto-scaling for your Virtual Warehouse is that it
       further enforces node isolation, increasing warehouse fault tolerance. You can adjust the
       following auto-scaling thresholds:
Hive-LLAP Virtual Warehouse auto-scaling threshold settings
The following settings are available to configure auto-scaling for Hive-LLAP Virtual
       Warehouses:


Hive-LLAP Auto-scaling Threshold
Description



AutoSuspend Timeout
Sets the maximum time the warehouse idles before shutting down.


Nodes: Min: <n>, Max: <n>

Sets the minimum and maximum number of nodes (executors) for the warehouse cluster. The
                 maximum number of executors is limited by your cloud account limits.
Choose the minimum and maximum number of executors based on two factors:

Average number of queries that must be run concurrently for your workloads. The
                   more queries that must be run concurrently, the larger number of executors are needed.
The size of the data your workloads access. Larger numbers of executors can cache
                   more data, which enhances performance.




WAIT TIME
Sets how long queries wait in the queue to execute. For example, if
               WaitTime Seconds is set to 10, then when
               executing queries are waiting in the queue for 10 seconds, the cluster auto-scales up
               to meet query demand.


Query Isolation
Enables the Virtual Warehouse to determine, based on the value you set for the
               hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold configuration parameter,
               whether to spawn dedicated executor nodes to execute scan-heavy, data-intensive queries
               in isolation.


Max Concurrent Isolated Queries
Available if Query Isolation is enabled. Sets the maximum
               number of isolated queries that can execute concurrently in their own dedicated
               executor nodes. Select this number based on the scan size of the data for your average
               scan-heavy, data-intensive query.


Max Nodes Per Isolated Query
Available if Query Isolation is enabled. Sets how many
               executor nodes can be spawned for each isolated query.



Impala Virtual Warehouse auto-scaling threshold settings
The following settings are available to configure auto-scaling for Impala Virtual
       Warehouses:


Impala Auto-scaling Setting
Description



Disable AutoSuspend
When you enable this control, your Virtual Warehouse does not suspend itself
               when the auto-scaler has scaled back to the last executor group, and those executors
               are idle. Instead, the Virtual Warehouse continues to consume cloud resources. You
               can override this behavior by disabling the Disable
                 AutoSuspend control.


AutoSuspend Timeout
Sets the maximum time the warehouse idles before shutting down. This setting
               only applies when the Disable AutoSuspend control is
               not enabled.


Nodes: Min: <n> Max: <n>
Sets the minimum and maximum number of nodes (executors) for the warehouse cluster. The
               maximum number of executors is limited by your cloud account limits.
Choose the minimum and maximum number of executors based on two factors:

Average number of queries that must be run concurrently for your workloads. The
                   more queries that must be run concurrently, the larger number of executors is
                   needed.
The size of the data your workloads access. Larger numbers of executors can cache
                   more data, which enhances performance.



Scale Up Delay
Sets the length of time in seconds that the system waits before adding more
               executors when it detects queries waiting in the queue to execute. The time to
               auto-scale is affected by how the underlying Kubernetes system is configured.


Scale Down Delay
Sets the length of time in seconds that the system waits before it removes
               executors when it detects idle executor groups. As with the Scale Up
                 Delay setting, the time to auto-scale down is affected by how the
               underlying Kubernetes system is configured.




