Impala warehouse configuration optionsCloudera Docs
Impala warehouse configuration options
You can configure a number of parameters while configuring an Impala Virtual Warehouse
        in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) on Private Cloud. These parameters help you to provision
        high-performance Impala Virtual Warehouses and enable you to optimally utilize compute
        resources.
Workload Aware Auto-Scaling in Impala (Preview)Workload Aware Auto-Scaling (WAAS) is available as a technical preview. WAAS allocates   Impala Virtual Warehouse resources based on the workload that is running.Spill Impala queries to external storageCloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) on Private Cloud enables you to write intermediate files   during large sorts, joins, aggregations, or analytic function operations to a remote scratch space   on HDFS or Ozone.Enabling Unified Analytics for Impala in CDW Private CloudYou can enable Unified Analytics while creating an Impala Virtual Warehouse. Doing this   provisions a Virtual Warehouse that can automatically redirect queries to an appropriate SQL   engine (either Hive or Impala) depending on the nature of the query.Auto-suspend Virtual WarehousesAutoSuspend Timeout is an option you can set while creating a Virtual Warehouse.   Understand how the auto-suspend timeout option works along with the auto-scaling settings on a   Virtual Warehouse.Configuring Impala coordinator shutdownTo             optimize resource utilization, you need to know how to configure Impala         coordinators to automatically shutdown during idle periods. You         need to know how to         prevent unnecessary restarts. Monitoring programs that periodically connect to Impala can         cause unnecessary restarts.Auto-scaling Impala Virtual WarehousesYour Impala Virtual Warehouse in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Private Cloud has an     auto-scaler process that works with coordinators and executors to make resources available for     queued queries. This ensures that workload demand is met without wasting cloud resources.Configuring Impala coordinator high availabilityA single Impala coordinator might not handle the number of concurrent queries you         want to run or provide the memory your queries require. You can configure multiple active         coordinators to resolve or mitigate these problems. You can change the number of active         coordinators later.Impala pod configuration option in CDW Private CloudCloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) allocates standard resources to the warehouses that are   suitable for most workloads. You can control the size of the Virtual Warehouse at the time of   creation by choosing the number of nodes to be used. You can either select a default option or a   custom option that you may have created.