Configuring Impala coordinator high availabilityCloudera Docs
Configuring Impala coordinator high availability
A single Impala coordinator might not handle the number of concurrent queries you
        want to run or provide the memory your queries require. You can configure multiple active
        coordinators to resolve or mitigate these problems. You can change the number of active
        coordinators later.

You can configure up to five active-active Impala coordinators to run in an Impala
                Virtual Warehouse. When you create an Impala Virtual Warehouse, CDW provides you an
                option to configure Impala coordinator and Database Catalog high availability,
                described in the next topic. You can choose one of the following options:

Disabled
Disables Impala coordinator and Database Catalog high availability
Active-passive
Runs multiple coordinators (one active, one passive) and Database Catalogs
                        (one active, one passive)
Active-active
Runs multiple coordinators (both active) and Database Catalogs (one active,
                        one passive)

By using two coordinators in an active-passive mode, one coordinator is active at a
                time. If one coordinator goes down, the passive coordinator becomes active.
If you select the Impala coordinators to be in an active-active mode, the client
                software uses a cookie to keep a virtual connection to a particular coordinator.
                When a coordinator disappears for some reason, perhaps due to a coordinator shutting
                down, then the client software may print the error "Invalid session id" before it
                automatically reconnects to a new coordinator. 
Using active-active coordinators, you can have up to five coordinators running
                concurrently in active-active mode with a cookie-based load-balancing.
An Impala Web UI is available for each coordinator which you can use for
                troubleshooting purposes.
Clients who connect to your Impala Virtual Warehouse using multiple coordinators must
                use the latest Impala shell. The following procedure covers these tasks.


Follow instructions for "Creating Virtual Warehouse".

Select the number of executors you need from the Size
                    dropdown menu.
A number of additional options are displayed, including High
                        availability (HA).






Select the Enabled (Active-Active) option from the
                        High availability (HA) dropdown menu.

Select the number of coordinators you need from the Number of Active
                        Coordinators dropdown menu ranging from 2 to 5.
You can edit an existing Impala Virtual Warehouse to change the number of
                    active coordinators. importantDo not decrease the number of
                        active-active coordinators you set up initially; otherwise, the Virtual
                        Warehouse may shut down immediately. If clients are running queries on the
                        Virtual Warehouse, the queries could fail.

Change values for other settings as needed, click
                    Create, and wait for the Impala Virtual Warehouse to be
                    in the running state.
Click  to learn more about the setting.

Go to Cloudera Data Warehouse > Overview > Impala Virtual Warehouse >  > Edit > WEB UI, and then click each Impala Coordinator Web UI
                            n link to get information about the
                    coordinator.

Go to Cloudera Data Warehouse > Overview > Impala Virtual Warehouse >  and select the Copy Impala shell Download
                        command option. 
The following command is copied to your
                    clipboard:pip install impala-shell==4.1.0

Provide the command to clients who want to connect to the Impala Virtual Warehouse with multiple coordinators
        using the Impala shell.

Instruct the client user to update impyla to version compatible with CDW, as
                    listed Runtime component versions for Cloudera Data
                        Warehouse Private Cloud.
For example, installing/updating impyla 0.18a2, is required to connect to your
                    Virtual Warehouse active-active coordinators in CDW 2021.0.3-b27 or
                    later.

Inform the client that to connect over ODBC to an HA-configured Impala Virtual
            Warehouse that uses active-active coordinators, you must append impala.session.id to the
            HTTPAuthCookies connector configuration option of the Cloudera ODBC driver.

Table 1. HTTPAuthCookies

Key Name
Value
Required



HTTPAuthCookies
impala.auth,JESSSIONID,KNOXSESSIONID,impala.session.id
Yes





Parent topic: Impala warehouse configuration options