




CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.5 Release Summary - December 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.5 Release Summary
December 2020
Cloudera is pleased to announce the release of Cloudera Data Platform
(CDP) Private Cloud (PvC) Base version 7.1.5. CDP PvC Base 7.1.5 is a
cumulative maintenance release carrying forward all features and
functions from versions 7.1.4 and earlier, and adds the following
features:
Features


FIPS 140-2 Compliance support for a subset of platform components. Select CDP Private Cloud Base components can now be configured to use FIPS compliant cryptography, through the use of FIPS 140-2 validated encryption modules, and with deployment on FIPS mode enabled RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and CentOS Operating Systems.


Ranger support for having Hive table access policies override HDFS
ACLs for the table’s corresponding HDFS files and directories.   This
brings parity to users of CDH’s Sentry ACLSync feature.


Auto Queue Creation is now supported by YARN when Hive
impersonation is turned off.


Replication support for Atlas metadata and Ranger policies for
Hive databases (Tech Preview)


Extended audits for Atlas operations. Atlas actions including
changes to type definitions, admin-level operations like imports and
exports, and Atlas server state changes are now captured by Atlas
audit.
For more information, see
Audit Operations.


Ownership for all new tables created are automatically owned by
the user creating them in Apache Kudu.


Bloom filter column predicate pushdown implementation in Apache
Kudu allows for optimized execution of filters which match on a set of
column values with a false-positive rate and increases Impala query
performance using Bloom filter by 19 to 30% and 41% for distributed
joins when tested with TPC-H benchmarks.


IGNORE operations are supported in Apache Kudu by a master server
feature flag that allows clusters to turn on support for ignore
operations. IGNORE operations are supported in Kudu Spark integration as
well.


Rebased Cloudera Manager to 7.2.4 with the following features:


Support for pluggable authentication modules (PAM)


Support for non-JKS keystore if needed to meet compliance
requirements


Support for  Postgresql JDBC driver version 42.2.14.jre7


Upgrade support for base clusters with attached 7.x compute
clusters




Additional Resources

Package Details
Parcel Details
Cloudera Manager Release Notes
Cloudera Runtime Release Notes














