




CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.7 Release Summary - August 2021






Cloudera Docs







CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.7 Release Summary
Cloudera is pleased to announce the release of Cloudera Data Platform
(CDP) Private Cloud (PvC) Base version 7.1.7 and Cloudera Manager
version 7.4.4. These releases introduce a direct upgrade path from CDH 6
to CDP Private Cloud Base and roll up all the prior maintenance
enhancements from previous releases.
The full list of new features is as follows:
Upgrade Enhancements


CDH 6 Upgrades

CDH 6 customers can now upgrade their CDH 6.1.x, 6.2.x and 6.3.x
clusters directly to CDP Private Cloud Base without having to
build a new cluster. Full details of the upgrade procedure are
provided here.



Documented Rollback Procedure


Rollback procedures are available to support upgrades from CDH 6
to CDP 7.1.7


Rollback procedures are available to support upgrades from HDP 3
to CDP 7.1.6




New Upgrade Companion


A new Upgrade
Companion
is now available on docs.cloudera.com to provide a centralized
documentation hub for all upgrade related activities, across
all CDP form factors. The Upgrade Companion provides a set of
content tabs that cover each of the 5 major steps of the CDP
upgrade journey:

Getting Started
Pre-upgrade Tasks
Upgrade the Cluster
Post-upgrade Task
Troubleshooting



The Upgrade Companion also includes a set of filters that help
readers narrow the content to their specific configuration
requirements.


Note: The Upgrade Companion has been designed to complement, and
not replace, the existing upgrade documentation.




Platform Support Enhancements


New OS Support


CDP Private Cloud Base now supports RHEL/CENTOS 8.2 for x86 and
PPC


CDP Private Cloud Base now supports Ubuntu 20 for x86




New DB Support

CDP Private Cloud Base now supports MariaDB 10.3, MariaDB 10.4,
and Oracle 19c (19.9)



General Feature Enhancements


Cloudera Manager Enhancements


Numerous CVE/security fixes delivered by upgrading over 20
embedded libraries


Tool for checking LDAP connectivity when enabling external
authentication


Extensible Commission/Decommission workflows for arbitrary
services


Service Monitor now adapts to low memory environments when
possible


Atlas canary & extensible canary monitoring framework for CSD
authors


Configurable Kerberos config file location and principals for
Ozone, YARN QM


More efficient rack topology evaluation (Improves YARN
performance up to 20%)


Consistent OS user/group IDs (seamless reattach of cloud storage
volumes)


Snapshot storage now included in HDFS usage report calculations


Test DB connection tool supports Oracle RAC




SDX Enhancements


Ranger authorization for Hive table creation now supports new
resources “storage-type” and “storage-url” and one permission
“RW Storage. When doAs = false superuser “hive” would be the
user creating the tables in the specified storage and this
results in table creation to get authorized for user hive and
not for the original user who issued the ‘create/ alter table’
command.


HDFS superuser actions are now captured in Ranger Audit


Ranger audit enhancements include

Filters that now support a clickable UI table format
Easy selection of audit filters to display and shows the
complete user access details
Configuration options to specify the maximum retention days
for Ranger audits



Ranger Usersync services will update Ranger when users and
groups have been deleted from the sync source (UNIX, LDAP, AD
or PAM). This ensures that users and groups – and their
associated access permissions – do not remain in Ranger when
they are deleted from sync source.


CM Configurable Maximum Retention Days attribute for Ranger
audits. Now users can update the solr document expiry
ranger.audit.solr.config.ttl and
ranger.audit.solr.config.delete.trigger parameters from CM in
Ranger configurations and refresh configurations to get the
Solr collection for Ranger audits updated with ttl and delete
trigger.




Data Warehouse Enhancements

Impala now supports Ranger-based row-level filters policies.
Row-level filter policies are similar to other Ranger access
policies and can be set filters for specific users, groups,
and conditions.



Platform Enhancements


Ozone now defaults to a full High Availability configuration
that enable continuous operation without risk of any single
point of failure


Ozone Node Decommissioning make it easier to for admins to
perform OS upgrades, hardware maintenance and other
maintenance of nodes


Ozone Safe Delete feature helps prevent accidental deletion of
files and directories.


YARN compatibility enhancements

Support for intra-queue preemption for queues that are
configured with fairness-based ordering
Support for LazyPreemption that optimizes the selection of
containers from queues for preemption
Dynamic Queue Scheduling (TP) feature enables customers to
dynamically change queue resource allocation



Kudu integration with Hive Metastore can now be configured via
Cloudera Manager


Kudu supports multi-row transactions for INSERT and
INSERT_IGNORE operations (TP)




Streaming Enhancements


The Kafka service can now be configured to automatically publish
topic metadata to Apache Atlas. Kafka topics will show up in
Atlas as individual entities as well as in Data Lineage
graphs.


Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) can now be configured to use an
external Prometheus metric store instead of Cloudera Manager’s
internal metric store. This improves SMM scalability for large
Kafka deployments with a high number of topics, partitions,
consumers, and producers.


Schema Registry feature added which allows importing schemas
from Confluent Schema Registry’s Kafka topic dump. Schemas can
then be uploaded as a file over REST.


Streams Replication Manager now supports storing all sensitive
data in a secure manner.


Cruise Control now exposes TLS configurations to support TLS
ciphers and protocols




Resources:

Package Details
Parcel Details
Cloudera Manager 7.4.4 Release Notes
Cloudera Runtime 7.1.7 Release Notes














