




CDP Data Center 7.1 Release Summary - June 2020






Cloudera Docs







CDP Data Center 7.1 Release Summary
June 2020
Cloudera is pleased to announce the release of Cloudera Data Platform
Data Center (CDP DC) version 7.1. This release provides the most
powerful and comprehensive data management and analytics platform for
on-premises environments. CDP DC 7.1 delivers a number of enhancements
focusing on ease of administration, improved stability, and performance
at increased scale. Most importantly, this release provides an in-place
upgrade path from HDP 2.6.5, CDH 5.13 - CDH 5.16 and CDP DC 7.0 to CDP
DC 7.1.
Here are the highlights of this release:
Upgrades & Migrations

Support for in-place upgrades from CDH to CDP Data Center from
CDH 5.13 - 5.16 clusters to Cloudera Runtime 7.1 and upgrade from
Cloudera Manager 5.13 - 5.16 to Cloudera Manager 7.1 in CDP Data
Center 7.1.
    
Upgrading CDH and CDP Data Center


Support for migration from CDH to CDP DC is provided by Cloudera
Manager Replication Manager which enables data copy from a CDH 5 or
CDH 6 cluster to a Cloudera Runtime 7.1 cluster.
    
Using
Replication Manager when migrating to CDP Data Center from
CDH


Support for in-place upgrades from HDP to CDP Data Center
consists of upgrading from HDP 2.6.5.x to Cloudera Runtime 7.1 using
Ambari and then migrating the management platform from Ambari to
Cloudera Manager. Newly created AM2CM tool captures HDP Cluster’s
blueprint from Ambari and converts it to a Cloudera Manager
deployment template which is then deployed to Cloudera Manager 7.1
and activates the Cloudera Runtime 7.1 parcels.
    
Upgrading Ambari and HDP to CDP Data Center


Support for migration from Sentry to Ranger converts Sentry
privileges into their equivalents within Ranger service policies.
Tool also supports migration of Kafka policies from Sentry to Ranger
and is automatically used to convert Sentry policies to Ranger
policies when using Replication Manager to migrate to CDP for HFDS,
Impala and Hive.
    
Migrating
the Sentry service to Apache
Ranger


Support for migration from Navigator to Atlas converts Navigator
content from business metadata like Tags, Custom properties
(definitions and entity assignments), Managed metadata properties
(definitions and entity assignments), Original and updated entity
names and descriptions and technical metadata from Hive, Impala,
Spark, Referenced HDFS / S3 to Atlas content.
    
Migrating
Navigator content to
Atlas



Streams Messaging

Gain a complete and comprehensive Kafka streaming experience
with the addition of several components in CDP Data Center such as
Schema Registry, Kafka Streams, Streams Messaging Manager, Streams
Replication Manager, Kafka Connect and Cruise Control. This release
of CDP Data Center 7.1 will also support Apache Kafka 2.4.
Boost Kafka connectivity with HDFS, S3 and Kafka Streams for
simple streaming applications against Kafka sources with the new
Kafka Connect.
Improve operational efficiency with the new Cruise Control that
offers API based tools to monitor and assist with rebalancing and
scaling of Kafka clusters and topics.
Monitor and manage your Kafka clusters end-to-end across
producers, consumers, topics and brokers with Streams Messaging
Manager. This release also addresses a number of security issues,
bug fixes and enhancements.
Enable business continuity with Streams Replication Manager that
supports replication of your Kafka clusters for disaster recovery
and high availability needs. This is tightly integrated into SMM for
replication monitoring.
Scale up your messaging by leveraging Schema Registry to store
and access your schemas across your Kafka cluster. Schema Registry
now integrates with Apache Ranger for providing role based access
control.

Data Engineering

Apache Spark 3 preview - This release is designed to enhance
performance and speed for creating and maintaining robust data
pipelines across the enterprise. New features include adaptive
execution of Spark SQL, better data source v2 performance, binary
data source and additional language support.
Improved performance and interoperability for Apache Spark with
Apache Hive and dynamic partitioning pruning.
New Hue integrations with Apache Atlas, the Data Catalog API,
Service discovery and Apache Hive language references enables faster
and more holistic management of data engineering workflows and
pipeline creation.

Data Warehousing

Faster SQL analytics on larger data sets, including improved
ad-hoc and instant interactive insights over petabytes of data, fast
updates and drill down into time series data, and time-based
aggregations, in Apache Hive and Impala.
Deeper understanding from unstructured data sources in Apache
Solr with improvements to techniques used to evaluate, recognize,
and discover data of any structure, enriched with any data, leading
to more accurate results.
Easier visualizations of business insights from improvements to
user experience and additional user tools that help to streamline
and ease SQL development Hue and Data Analytics Studio (DAS), which
results in less time to create dashboards and data visualization,
and makes it more accessible for non-technical users.
Optimize and cost-control your hybrid cloud data warehouse
deployments with intelligent workload optimization from Cloudera
Workload Experience Manager (Workload XM).

Machine Learning


Data Science Workbench now available on CDP Data Center - CDSW
on CDP-DC enables an improved best of breed data science platform
experience for your data science teams on our latest enterprise data
platform.

Future-proof modernization - CDSW on CDP-DC enables
continuity in your data science experience at every stage of
your cloud journey, enabling a more frictionless path to
Cloudera Machine Learning (CML) — Our enterprise
cloud-native data science and machine learning platform for
CDP Private Cloud and Public Cloud.



Advanced control over experiments and model deployment - Ability
to select environment variables in model and experiment builds,
giving data science teams more control when testing and deploying
models into production. Data science teams can now manage workflows
with greater precision and expedite model deployments regardless of
environmental requirements.


Operational Database

Distributed Compaction of Medium-Sized Objects (MOBs) - HBase
has long supported medium-sized objects which enable using upto 10MB
sized objects in the database (allowing storage of large elements
such as photos and videos). This release has implemented distributed
compactions which improves performance and reduces application
impact when they occur.
RBAC policies in Apache Ranger for Phoenix tables which reduces
administrative time by making Ranger the single place for setting
policies.
Read Replica support in HBase 2 enables access to data in a
pre-defined millisecond window which ensures 100% availability in
the event of a node failure. This is achieved by providing timeline
consistency and partition consistency during the outage, instead of
strong consistency.

SDX

Navigator to Atlas migration is supported through new tools and
utilities, making migration from CDH easier. Navigator data can be
extracted using the new cnav utility and transformed to Atlas data
format, using the nav2atlas utility. The result can be
subsequently imported using Atlas’ migration import.
Improved support for metadata includes the ability to search on
system attributes (technical metadata), and a new business metadata
feature (migration from Navigator’s “managed metadata” features).
New features include the ability to bulk import business glossary
terms, bulk assign business metadata to entities, the ability to
purge entities and new authorization privileges for labels as well
as business metadata.
Impala Column Masking support. Enhanced security, compliance and
consistency across CDP, letting organizations bring many more users
and use cases to existing Impala databases in a safe and secure
manner.
Enhanced security with enterprise grade cryptography support
with Ranger KMS and Key Trustee Server KMS integration. The
integration feature allows either the use of a hardened database or
the Key Trustee Server as the backing keystore providing choice and
ease of configuration.
Ranger KMS now supports new features like Cloudera Manager
integration, KTS KMS ACLs to Ranger KMS policies migration and Key
Trustee KMS to Ranger KMS KTS migration.
Transparent encryption and secure data at rest is now available
without requiring changes to applications

Cluster Management


In-place upgrades to CDP from CDH 5.13-5.16 and HDP 2.6.5 are
provided by Cloudera Manager 7.1. Upgrade tooling includes:


Ambari Blueprint to Cloudera Manager template conversion tools


FairScheduler to CapacityScheduler migration


Pre-upgrade validation checks to assess upgrade readiness




SSO and cluster proxying capabilities are provided by Apache
Knox across a wide range of web endpoints and APIs, including
Cloudera Manager itself.


HDFS Upgrade Domains now supports bulk assignment via Cloudera
Manager UI


Tagging Cloudera Manager adds support to tag hosts, clusters
and services via API


Custom Linux cgroups can be utilized to launch cluster services


FPGA devices can now be explicitly configured for use by YARN
applications


End-to-end encryption for Zookeeper inter-process communication
protects all metadata for all of Cloudera’s services.


Apache Ozone Beta


This CDP DC release includes the beta1 release of Ozone, the
platform’s new S3-compatible object store, which provides


Scale to billion objects of all sizes


Native Hadoop API as well as S3 API


Provides better handling of small files due




As compared to the Ozone Tech Preview, this release includes


Support for billion objects


Tuning, increased scalability, stability, performance
improvements and high availability.


In addition features include native support for Hive and Spark.




Platform Certifications

Operating Systems: RHEL / CENTOS / OEL 7.6, 7.7
Java Runtime: OpenJDK 1.8, OpenJDK 11, Oracle JDK 11
Backend Databases: This release adds support for MySQL 5.7,
Oracle 12 (Fresh install only), MariaDB 10.2, and Postgres 10.














