




CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6 Release Summary - March 2021






Cloudera Docs







CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.6 Release Summary
March 2021
Cloudera is pleased to announce the release of Cloudera Data Platform
(CDP) Private Cloud (PvC) Base version 7.1.6 and Cloudera Manager
version 7.3.1. These releases introduce a direct upgrade path from HDP 3
to CDP Private Cloud Base, add numerous enhancements to simplify the
upgrade and migration paths from CDH 5 and HDP 2, and roll up all the
prior maintenance enhancements from previous releases.
The full list of new features is as follows:
Upgrade Enhancements


HDP 3 Upgrades


HDP 3 customers can now upgrade their HDP 3.1.5 clusters
directly to CDP Private Cloud Base. Full details of the
upgrade procedure are provided
here.


A new version of the AM2CM tool
(1.2.0)
has been released to support this upgrade.




Documented Rollback Procedure


Rollback procedures are available to support upgrades from CDH
5 to CDP
7.1.6


Rollback procedures are available to support upgrades from HDP 2
to CDP 7.1.6.




Accumulo Support


CDP Private Cloud Base now supports Operational Database (OpDB)
powered by Apache Accumulo, based on Accumulo 2.0.


Accumulo 2.0 is the first version that supports semantic
versioning for management and consistency, bulk import API
that improves the time of data upload, simplified scripts for
easier management and user experience improvements like table
summaries and dedicated scan support.


This now enables CDH 5, HDP 2, and HDP 3 customers that utilize
Accumulo to upgrade to CDP Private Cloud Base. More details
here.




CDH 5 Upgrade Enhancements

YARN FS2CS Tool Enhancements for scheduler migration provides
better scheduler transition for customers who are upgrading or
migrating from CDH 5.13 - 5.16 with improved placement rules,
a new placement rule evaluation engine, and a new weight mode
for capacity allocation with flexible auto-queue creation for
Capacity Scheduler.



YARN Upgrade Enhancements


YARN and YARN Queue Manager now support dynamic and
auto-child-queue creation.


YARN Queue Manager now supports partitions and node labels -
customers can now partition a cluster into sub-clusters and
classify nodes using labels. This allows for jobs to be
deployed to run on nodes with specific characteristics. In
addition the Queue Manager UI can now be used to manage YARN
partitions.


Enhanced Placement Rules for YARN queues  - To resolve
previous limitations, a new placement rules evaluation engine
is introduced that supports the new JSON-based placement rules
format.


Placement rules can now be created easily using new Queue
Manager UI enhancements.


A new feature called Weight Mode has been introduced for YARN
resource allocation, giving additional flexibility and easier
migration from fair scheduler configurations.




Platform Support Enhancements


New OS Versions

CDP Private Cloud Base now supports RHEL/CENTOS 7.9 for Intel
x86 and IBM PPC hardware.



New DB Versions

CDP Private Cloud Base now supports MySQL8 and Postgres12.



General Feature Enhancements


Cloudera Manager Enhancements (release 7.3.1)


Ranger audit can now be configured to use a local file system
rather than HDFS for storage, enabling a broader range of
cluster types including Kafka and NiFi to operate with full
security and governance capabilities but without the
additional resource/administrative overhead of HDFS.


Custom Kerberos principal support for streaming components: SRM,
SMM, Cruise Control, Kafka Connect and Schema Registry. This
enables flexible, externally-managed kerberos identities for a
broader range of cluster types.


(De)commission steps can be defined as part of CSD services,
enabling more seamless cluster up/down scaling and maintenance
workflows when using services like Kafka, Ozone and any 3rd
party software.


Service and role metrics collection supports gathering
enumerated text values.




Transaction Support

Support for complex distributed transactions across rows and
tables is now available using ANSI SQL semantics, providing
familiarity to MySQL or PostgreSQL users. See this
blog
for details and benchmarking results.



Data Warehouse Enhancements


Implement and re-enable ROLE-related statements in Impala,
allowing administrators to grant privileges to ROLES, and
assign ROLES to GROUPS, delivering powerful permission
control. See
document
for details.


Hive Warehouse Connector Simplification delivers a common
configuration to specify the mode of operation (Spark Direct
Reader or JDBC). Its use is fully transparent through
spark.sql(“<query>”). For backward compatibility, the
configurations used in earlier releases are still supported,
but will be deprecated eventually. For details, see reading
data through
HWC.


Added support for the Impyla client, which lets developers
submit SQL queries to Impala within Python programs. See
document
for details.


Kudu support for INSERT_IGNORE, UPDATE_IGNORE, and
DELETE_IGNORE operations, simplifying client applications and
improving ingest performance.


Faster cluster restart and rebalance for Kudu.




Object Store Enhancements


Ozone enhancements to support Kafka Connect, Atlas and Nifi
sinks. Customers can now use Kafka connectors to write to
Ozone without any modifications. Nifi sinks allow Nifi to use
Ozone as the storage in a secure CDP Cluster. Atlas
integrations provide lineage and data governance capability
for data store in Ozone.


Trash support with Ozone now provides the capability to recover
keys that may have been accidentally deleted. So using this
feature customers can recover data that may have been
accidentally deleted.


Ozone Multiraft protocol support enhances the speed of writes
into the data pipelines thereby increasing write performance
upto 30%.




Authorization & Audit Enhancements


Ranger Audit Filter (Tech Preview) - Using JSON defined filters
in ranger repo config, administrators can limit which audit
events are captured when accessed. This is especially useful
for keeping audit logs relevant for services users that
already have audits at a higher level. For example, an audit
filter can be created to exclude service users’ activities
(such as METADATA_OPERATION from hive) to reduce the audit
volume and make the relevant end user audit events easily
manageable.


Ranger Audit Access Improvements - Makes columns resizable and
allows users to select columns that they want to see.


Improved performance for Hive-HDFS ACL sync.




Product Documentation Enhancements
The docs website now hosts a feedback tab on the lower-right edge of
most pages for reader comments. Readers are asked “How can we improve?”
and are invited to tell us what they like, how we can improve our
content and content delivery, and what problems they are encountering.
Feedback is routed directly to the content development team for fast
action.
Additional Resources

Package
Details
Parcel
Details
Cloudera Manager Release
Notes
Cloudera Runtime Release
Notes
*CM 7.3.1 Release bits *
CDP 7.1.6 Runtime Release
bits
Ambari DC
bits
HDP Intermediate
bits
HDP GPL














