Custom images and image catalogsCloudera Docs
Custom images and image catalogs
If necessary, you can use a custom Runtime or FreeIPA image for compliance or security
    reasons. You can then use the CDP CLI to register a custom image catalog and set the custom
    image within the custom image catalog. Later, you can use this custom image to create a Data
    Lake/Data Hub cluster or environment with a custom FreeIPA image.
Overview
A custom image should inherit most of its attributes from its source image, which
        is a default image that you select from the cdp-default image catalog. 
 The typical method of creating a Data Lake or Data Hub picks up the latest
        pre-warmed image from the cdp-default image catalog for the specified version of Runtime.
        These default images are pre-warmed VM images that contain a base URL to the default parcels
        in the Cloudera archive, amongst other configurations. If the default pre-warmed images do
        not suit your business needs, you can specify that the Data Lake/Data Hub or the environment
        (in the case of FreeIPA) uses a custom image instead.

What is a custom image?
A custom image is an entry in a custom image catalog that inherits most of its attributes
        from a source (default) image.
Custom image entries have:


An image type: Runtime [which includes Data Hub and Data Lake images] or FreeIPA
A source image ID that points to an image in the cdp-default image catalog
A timestamp of creation
An option to specify a VM region and image reference (such as an AMI ID) if you are
            overriding the source image with a custom VM image
An option to override the parcel base URL



Why use a custom image?
You might require a custom image for compliance or security reasons (a “hardened” image),
        or to have your own packages pre-installed on the image, for example monitoring tools or
        software. You might also want to specify a custom image if you need to use a default image
        with a specific Runtime maintenance version applied, rather than simply specifying the
        latest major Runtime version.
noteWhen customizing VM images, note that certain customizations (for example, CIS hardening
        rules) may not be compatible with CDP.

What can you customize?
In a custom image entry, you can override the VM images themselves with your own custom
        images that are sufficiently hardened. Importantly, you should only customize a
        default image from the cdp-default catalog as opposed to creating one from scratch. You can
        also override the default parcel base URL (at archive.cloudera.com) with your own host
        site.

What is a custom image catalog?
A custom image catalog is simply a catalog that holds custom images. A custom image catalog
        can contain a single or multiple custom image entries.
Custom image catalogs have:

A name. The name is a unique identifier and is used to refer to the catalog during
          environment, Data Lake, and Data Hub creation; as well as during catalog operations like
          creating an image.
A description.
An owner. The owner is the user who runs the command to create the catalog.


What is the process for creating a custom image and catalog?

If you are replacing the VM images in a custom image entry with a customized version,
          you should first prepare the image by modifying an official Cloudera default image, which
          you can find under Shared Resources > Image Catalogs > cdp-default.
Select a source image from the cdp-default image catalog to be the source of
          customization. When you run the CLI command to find a default image, you specify the
          Runtime version, provider, image type, or a combination of the three.
Create a custom image catalog, or identify an existing catalog where you want to save
          the custom image entry.
Apply the necessary changes to the custom image entry, like the override AMI IDs with
          the new, customized AMIs; or add a new parcel base URL using the
            --base-parcel-url command when you set the custom image. 
You can then create an environment, Data Lake, or Data Hub, based on custom catalogs via
          the CDP CLI. 



Creating a custom image and image catalog with the CDP CLIYou can create a custom Runtime or FreeIPA image and image catalog through the CDP     CLI.Switching image catalogsYou can switch the image catalog of an already existing Data Hub, Data Lake, or FreeIPA     cluster. You may want to switch the image catalog for a cluster in order to restrict which     Runtime version can be upgraded to, or in order to move to custom images for an existing     cluster.Parent topic: Advanced cluster options