Aborting a Pending CommandCloudera Docs
Aborting a Pending Command

Minimum Required Role:
Operator
        (also provided by Configurator,
          Cluster Administrator, Limited
          Cluster Administrator , Full
          Administrator) 
Commands will time out if they are unable to complete after a period of time.
If necessary, you can abort a pending command. For example, this may become
      necessary because of a hardware or network failure where a host running a
      role instance becomes disconnected from the Cloudera Manager Server host.
      In this case, the Cloudera Manager Server will be unable to connect to the
      Cloudera Manager Agent on that disconnected host to start or stop the role
      instance which will prevent the corresponding service from starting or
      stopping. To work around this, you can abort the command to start or stop
      the role instance on the disconnected host, and then you can start or stop
      the service again.
To abort any pending command:
You can click the Recent Commands indicator (),
      which shows the number of commands that are currently running in your cluster (if any). This
      indicator is positioned above the Support link at the bottom of the left menu. Unlike
      the Commands tab for a role or service, this indicator includes all
      commands running for all services or roles in the cluster. In the Running
        Commands window, click Abort to abort the pending command.
To abort a pending command for a service or role:

In the left menu, click Clusters and select the service where the
        role instance you want to stop is located. For example, click
            Clusters > HDFS
          Service if you want to abort a pending command for a
        DataNode.
Click the Instances tab.
In the list of instances, click the link for role instance where the command is
        running (for example, the instance that is located on the disconnected
        host).
Go to the Commands tab.
Find the command in the list of Running Commands and click Abort
        Command to abort the running command.


Related informationViewing Running and Recent CommandsParent topic: Managing Cloudera Runtime Services