Adding a ServiceCloudera Docs
Adding a Service
After initial installation, you can
      use the Add a Service wizard to add and configure new
      service instances. For example, you may want to add a service such as
      Oozie that you did not select in the wizard during the initial
      installation.

Minimum Required Role:
Limited Cluster
            Administrator  (also provided by Full
          Administrator and Cluster
          Administrator)
note
The binaries for the following services are not packaged in Cloudera
          Runtime and must be installed individually before being adding the service:
Accumulo
Kafka
Key Trustee KMS
If you do not add the binaries before adding the service, the
          service will fail to start. 

importantAdditional Steps are
        required if the cluster is running a Solr service and you want to add
        either the Apache Atlas or Apache Ranger services:
Follow the steps below to add a
              service and add an additional Solr Service. 
When the Add a Service wizard prompts you to fill in
            configuration properties, set the ZooKeeper Znode property to
              solr-infra.
Complete adding the Solr service as described below.
Run the Add a Service wizard again to add
            the Ranger or Atlas service.
Cloudera Manager will prompt you for the Solr service to use.
            Select the additional Solr service you just added.


To add a service:
On the
              Home > Status
          tab, click  to the right of the cluster
          name and select Add a Service. A list of service types display.
          You can add one type of service at a time.Select a service and click Continue. If
          you are missing required binaries, a pop-up displays asking if you
          want to continue with adding the service.Select the services on which the new service should depend. All
          services must depend on the same ZooKeeper service. Click
            Continue.The Assign Roles page
            displaysCustomize the assignment of role
          instances to hosts. The wizard evaluates the hardware configurations
          of the hosts to determine the best hosts for each role. The wizard
          assigns all worker roles to the same set of hosts to which the HDFS
          DataNode role is assigned. You can reassign role instances.
Click a field below a role to display a dialog box containing a
            list of hosts. If you click a field containing multiple hosts, you
            can also select All Hosts to assign the role to all hosts, or
              Custom to display the hosts dialog box.
The following shortcuts for specifying hostname
            patterns are supported:
Range of hostnames (without the domain portion)

Range Definition
Matching Hosts



10.1.1.[1-4]
10.1.1.1, 10.1.1.2, 10.1.1.3, 10.1.1.4


host[1-3].company.com
host1.company.com, host2.company.com,
                          host3.company.com


host[07-10].company.com
host07.company.com, host08.company.com,
                          host09.company.com, host10.company.com


IP addresses
Rack name

Click the View By Host button for an overview of the role
            assignment by hostname ranges.
Click ContinueReview and modify configuration settings, such as data
          directory paths and heap sizes and click
            Continue. The service is started.
noteIf you are adding the Ranger service, passwords for the Ranger
            Admin, Usersync, Tagsync, and KMS Keyadmin users must be a minimum
            of 8 characters long, with at least one alphabetic and one numeric
            character. The following characters are not valid: " ' \ `
              ´.
Click Continue then click Finish.
          You are returned to the home page.Verify the new service is started properly by checking the
          health status for the new service. If the Health Status is
          Good, then the service started properly.

Prerequisites for installing AtlasUsing Cloudera Manager, you can install Apache Atlas and there are some prerequites         that you must note before you proceed further.Installing Atlas using Add ServiceYou can install Atlas service in your Cloudera Manager instance by using the Add         Service method.Installing Ranger using Add ServiceYou can install Ranger service in an existing cluster using the Add Service action. Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Runtime Services