Advantages of ParcelsCloudera Docs
Advantages of Parcels

Because of their unique properties, parcels offer the
        following advantages over packages:

Distribution of Cloudera Runtime as a
            single object - Instead of having a separate package for each
          component of Cloudera Runtime, parcels are distributed as a single
          object. This makes it easier to distribute software to a cluster that
          is not connected to the Internet.

Internal consistency - All Cloudera
          Runtime components are matched, eliminating the possibility of
          installing components from different versions.

Installation outside of /usr
 - In some environments, Hadoop administrators do not have
          privileges to install system packages. With parcels, administrators
          can install to /opt,
          or anywhere else.note
With parcels, the path to
              the Cloudera Runtime libraries is /opt/cloudera/parcels/CDH/lib instead of the usual
                /usr/lib. Do
              not link /usr/lib/ elements to parcel-deployed paths, because
              the links can cause scripts that distinguish between the two paths
              to not work.



Installation of Cloudera Runtime without sudo
 - Parcel installation is handled by the Cloudera Manager Agent running as root, so you can install Cloudera Runtime
          without sudo.

Decoupled distribution from
            activation - With side-by-side install capabilities, you can
          stage a new version of Cloudera Runtime across the cluster before
          switching to it. This allows the most time-consuming part of an
          upgrade to be done ahead of time without affecting cluster operations,
          thereby reducing downtime.

Rolling upgrades - Using packages
          requires you to shut down the old process, upgrade the package, and
          then start the new process. Errors can be difficult to recover from,
          and upgrading requires extensive integration with the package
          management system to function seamlessly. With parcels, when a new
          version is staged side-by-side, you can switch to a new minor version
          by simply changing which version of Cloudera Runtime is used when
          restarting each process. You can then perform upgrades with rolling
          restarts, in which service roles are restarted in the correct order to
          switch to the new version with minimal service interruption. Your
          cluster can continue to run on the existing installed components while
          you stage a new version across your cluster, without impacting your
          current operations. Major version upgrades (for example, CDH 5 to CDH
          6) require full service restarts because of substantial changes
          between the versions. Finally, you can upgrade individual parcels or
          multiple parcels at the same time.

Upgrade management - Cloudera
          Manager manages all the steps in a CDH or Cloudera Runtime version
          upgrade. With packages, Cloudera Manager only helps with initial
          installation.

Additional components - Parcels are
          not limited to Cloudera Runtime. Add-on service parcels are also
          available.

Compatibility with other distribution tools - Cloudera
            Manager works with other tools you use for download and
            distribution, such as Puppet. Or, you can download the parcel to
            Cloudera Manager Server manually if your cluster has no Internet
            connectivity and then have Cloudera Manager distribute the parcel to
            the cluster.



Parent topic: Overview of Parcels