Adding a Compute Cluster and Data ContextCloudera Docs
Adding a Compute Cluster and Data Context
How to create a Compute Cluster and Data Context. Compute cluster needs Data Context to
    be able to talk to the Base cluster.

Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
To create a Compute cluster, you must have a Regular cluster that will
        be designated as the Base cluster. This cluster hosts the data services
        to be used by a Compute cluster and can also host services for other
        workloads that do not require access to data services defined in the
        Data Context.
To create a Compute cluster:

On the Cloudera Manager home page, click
              Clusters  > Add
              ClusterThe
            Add Cluster Welcome page
          displays.Click Continue. .The
            Cluster Basics page
        displaysSelect Compute cluster.If you already have a Data Context defined, select it from the
          drop-down list.To create a new Data Context: 
Select Create Data Context from
              the drop-down list.The Create Data
                Context dialog box displays.
Enter a unique name for the Data
            Context.
Select the Base cluster from the drop-down
            list.
Select the Data Services, Metadata Services and Security
              Services you want to expose in the Data Context. You can choose
              the following:

HDFS (required) 
Hive Metadata Service
Atlas
Ranger


Click
                Create.The Cluster
                Basics page displays your selections.
Click Continue.
Continue with the next steps in the Add Cluster Wizard to
          specify hosts and credentials, and install the Agent and CDH software.
          The Select Repository screen examines the CDH version of the base cluster and recommend
          a supported version. Cloudera recommends that your Base and Compute clusters each run the
          same version of CDH. The Add Cluster Wizard offers the option to choose other versions,
          but these combinations have not been tested and are not supported for production
          use.On the Select Services screen, choose any of the
          pre-configured combinations of services listed on this page, or you
          can select Custom Services and choose the
          services you want to install. Service combinations for Compute Clusters:
Data Engineering
Process develop, and serve predictive models.
Services included: Spark, Oozie, Hive on Tez, Data Analytics
            Studio, HDFS, YARN, and YARN Queue Manager
Spark
Spark for Compute
 
Services included: Core Configuration, Spark, Oozie, YARN, and
            YARN Queue Manager
Streams Messaging (Simple)
Simple Kafka cluster for streams messaging
Services included: Kafka, Schema Registry, and Zookeeper
Streams Messaging (Full)
Advanced Kafka cluster with monitoring and replication services
            for streams messaging
Services included: Kafka, Schema Registry, Streams Messaging
            Manager, Streams Replication Manager, Cruise Control, and
            Zookeeper
Custom Services
Choose your own services. Services required by chosen services
            will automatically be included.
The following services
          can be installed on a Compute cluster:
Hive Execution Service (This service supplies the
          HiveServer2 role only.)
Hue
Kafka
Spark 2
Oozie (only when Hue is available, and is a requirement
          for Hue)
YARN
HDFS
Stub DFS (Stub DFS replaces Core Settings and requires the Storage Operations
          role.)
If you have enabled Kerberos authentication on the Base
          cluster, you must also enable Kerberos on the Compute
        cluster.

Parent topic: Adding and Deleting Clusters