Add-on ServicesCloudera Docs
Add-on Services

Minimum Required Role:
Full
            Administrator. This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
Cloudera Manager supports adding new types of services (referred to as an
      add-on service) to Cloudera Manager, allowing such services
      to leverage Cloudera Manager distribution, configuration, monitoring,
      resource management, and life-cycle management features. An add-on service
      can be provided by Cloudera or an independent software vendor (ISV). If
      you have multiple clusters managed by Cloudera Manager, an add-on service
      can be deployed on any of the clusters.
noteIf the add-on service is already installed and running on hosts that
      are not currently being managed by Cloudera Manager, you must first add
      the hosts to a cluster that's under management. See Adding a Host to a Cluster for details.


Parent topic: Extending Cloudera Manager
Custom Service Descriptor Files

Integrating an add-on service requires a Custom Service Descriptor (CSD) file. A
        CSD file contains all the configuration needed to describe and manage a
        new service. A CSD is provided in the form of a JAR file.
Depending on the service, the CSD and associated software may be provided by
        Cloudera or by an ISV. The integration process assumes that the add-on
        service software (parcel or package) has been installed and is present
        on the cluster. The recommended method is for the ISV to provide the
        software as a parcel, but the actual mechanism for installing the
        software is up to the ISV. The instructions in
        Installing an Add-on Service assume that you have
        obtained the CSD file from the Cloudera repository or from an ISV. It
        also assumes you have obtained the service software, ideally as a
        parcel, and have or will install it on your cluster either prior to
        installing the CSD or as part of the CSD installation process.
Configuring the Location of Custom Service Descriptor Files
The default location for CSD files is /opt/cloudera/csd. You
          can change the location in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console as
          follows:
Select Administration > Settings.
Click the Custom Service Descriptors category.
Edit the Local Descriptor Repository Path  property.
Enter a Reason for
                change, and then click Save
                Changes to commit the changes.
Restart Cloudera Manager Server:
RHEL 7 compatible, SLES, Ubuntu:

sudo systemctl restart cloudera-scm-server

RHEL 6 compatible:

sudo service cloudera-scm-server restart







Installing an Add-on Service

An ISV may provide its software in the form of a parcel, or they may
        have a different way of installing their software. If their software is
        not available as a parcel, then you must install their software
          before adding the CSD file. Follow the instructions from the
        ISV for installing the software. If the ISV has provided their software
        as a parcel, they may also have included the location of their parcel
        repository in the CSD they have provided. In that case, install the CSD
        first and then install the parcel.
Installing the Custom Service Descriptor File

Acquire the CSD file from Cloudera or an ISV.
Log on to the Cloudera Manager Server host, and place the CSD file
            under the location configured for CSD files.
Set the file ownership to
              cloudera-scm:cloudera-scm with permission
            644.
Restart the Cloudera Manager Server:service cloudera-scm-server restart
Log into the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and restart the
            Cloudera Management Service.
Do one of the following:


Select Clusters > Cloudera Management Service.
Select
                            Actions > Restart.


On the
                        Home > Status
                    tab, click 
                    to the right of Cloudera Management
                      Service and select Restart.

Click Restart to confirm. The Command Details
                window shows the progress of stopping and then starting the
                roles.
When Command completed with
                    n/n successful
                  subcommands appears, the task is complete. Click
                  Close.



Installing the Parcel
noteIt is not required that the Cloudera Manager server host be part
          of a managed cluster and have an agent installed. Although you
          initially copy the CSD file to the Cloudera Manager server, the Parcel
          for the add-on service will not be installed on the Cloudera Manager
          Server host unless the host is managed by Cloudera Manager.
If you have already installed the external software onto your cluster, you can
          skip these steps and proceed to
          Adding an Add-on Service.

Click Parcels in the left menu. If the
            vendor has included the location of the repository in the CSD, the
            parcel should already be present and ready for downloading. If the
            parcel is available, skip to step
              7.
Use one of the following methods to open the
            parcel settings page:
Navigation bar
Click the parcel icon in the top navigation bar or click
                      Hosts and click the
                      Parcels tab.
Click the Configuration button.

Menu

Select
                        Administration > Settings.
Select
                        Category > Parcels.


In the Remote Parcel Repository URLs
            list, click the addition symbol to open an additional row.
Enter the path to the repository.
Enter a Reason for
              change, and then click Save
              Changes to commit the changes.
Click Parcels in the left
            navigation menu. The external parcel should appear in the set of
            parcels available for download.
Download, distribute, and activate the
            parcel.





Adding an Add-on Service

Add the service following the procedure in Adding a Service.



Uninstalling an Add-on Service


Stop all instances of the service.
Delete the service from all clusters. If there are other services that depend on
          the service you are trying to delete, you must delete those services
          first.
Log on to the Cloudera Manager Server host and remove the CSD file.
Restart the Cloudera Manager Server:service cloudera-scm-server restart
After the server has restarted, log into the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and
          restart the Cloudera Management Service.
Optionally remove the parcel.



