Adding a Cluster Using New HostsCloudera Docs
Adding a Cluster Using New Hosts
Use the Add Cluster - Installation wizard to create a regular or computer cluster using
    new hosts.
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
On the Cloudera Manager Home page, click the Add drop-down button at
      the top right, or the Clusters drop-down button at the top left, and
      then click Add Cluster. This launches the Add Cluster -
        Installation wizard, which allows you to create either a regular cluster or a
      compute cluster.
You can also launch the wizard by selecting Add Compute Cluster from
      the drop-down menu next to the cluster name. Launching the wizard from there skips the
        Welcome page and restricts the wizard to creating only a compute
      cluster.

Step 1: Welcome (Add Cluster - Installation)The Welcome page of the Add Cluster -       Installation wizard provides a brief overview of the installation and     configuration procedure, as well as some links to relevant documentation.Step 2: Cluster BasicsThe Cluster Basics page allows you to specify the       Cluster Name and select the Cluster     Type.Step 3: Setup Auto-TLSThe Setup Auto-TLS page provides instructions for initializing     the certificate manager for auto-TLS if you have not done so already.Step 4: Specify HostsCloudera Manager can automatically discover hosts on which to install Cloudera     Runtime and managed services. This section covers the procedure for new hosts only. Step 5: Select RepositoryThe Select Repository page allows you to specify repositories     for Cloudera Manager Agent and CDH and other       software.Step 6: Select JDKCloudera Manager can automatically install a JDK on cluster hosts,     or you can choose to install the JDK manually.Step 7: Enter Login CredentialsEnter the required login credentials and choose the method of     authentication.Step 8: Install AgentsThe Install Agents page displays the progress of the     installation. Step 9: Install ParcelsIf you selected parcels for the installation method, the Install       Parcels page reports the installation progress of the parcels you selected     earlier. Step 11: Inspect ClusterThe Inspect Cluster page provides a tool for inspecting     network performance as well as the Host Inspector to search for common configuration problems.     Cloudera recommends that you run the inspectors sequentially.Parent topic: Adding and Deleting Clusters