Adding a Cluster Using Currently Managed HostsCloudera Docs
Adding a Cluster Using Currently Managed Hosts
This section covers the procedure for creating a cluster from existing managed hosts
    only. For instructions using new (currently unmanaged) hosts, see Adding a Cluster Using
      New Hosts.
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
Before continuing, make sure that the managed hosts have the desired CDH or Cloudera Runtime
      version packages pre-installed.
On the Cloudera Manager Home page, click the Add drop-down button at
      the top right, or the Clusters drop-down button at the top left, and
      then click Add Cluster. This launches the Add Cluster -
        Installation wizard, which allows you to create either a regular cluster or a
      compute cluster.
You can also launch the wizard by selecting Add Compute Cluster from
      the drop-down menu next to the cluster name. Launching the wizard from there skips the
        Welcome page and restricts the wizard to creating only a compute
      cluster.
The following sections guide you through each page of the
      wizard.

Step 1: Welcome (Add Cluster - Installation)The Welcome page of the Add Cluster -       Installation wizard provides a brief overview of the installation and     configuration procedure, as well as some links to relevant documentation.Step 2: Cluster BasicsStep 3: Setup Auto-TLSThe Setup Auto-TLS page provides instructions for initializing     the certificate manager for auto-TLS if you have not done so already.Step 4: Specify HostsThis section covers the procedure for creating a cluster from existing managed hosts     only. For instructions using new (currently unmanaged) hosts, see Adding a Cluster Using       New Hosts.Step 5: Select RepositoryThe Select Repository page allows you to specify repositories     for Cloudera Manager Agent and CDH and other       software. If you are installing on currently managed hosts, the       Cloudera Manager Agent section is not displayed.Step 6: Install ParcelsIf you selected parcels for the installation method, the Install       Parcels page reports the installation progress of the parcels you selected     earlier. Step 8: Inspect ClusterThe Inspect Cluster page provides a tool for inspecting network     performance as well as the Host Inspector to search for common configuration problems. Cloudera     recommends that you run the inspectors sequentially.Parent topic: Adding and Deleting Clusters