Comparing Configurations for a Service Between ClustersCloudera Docs
Comparing Configurations for a Service Between Clusters
You can compare the configuration settings for a particular service between two
    different clusters in a Cloudera Manager deployment.

Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)

On the
            Home > Status tab,
          click the name of the service you want to compare, or click the Clusters menu and
          select the name of the service.Click the Configuration
        tab.Click the drop-down menu above the Filters pane, and select from one of the options
          that begins Diff with...:
service on cluster -
            For example, HBASE-1 on Cluster 1. This is the default display setting. All properties
            are displayed for the selected instance of the service.
service on all clusters - For example,
            HBase on all clusters. All properties are displayed for all instances of the
            service.
Diff with service on
              cluster - For example, Diff with HBase on Cluster 2.
            Properties are displayed only if the values for the instance of the service whose page
            you are on differ from the values for the instance selected in the drop-down
            menu.
Diff with service on all clusters - For
            example, Diff with HBase on all clusters. Properties are displayed if the values for the
            instance of the service whose page you are on differ from the values for one or more
            other instances in the Cloudera Manager deployment.
The service's properties will be displayed showing the values for each
          property for the selected clusters. The filters on the left side can be used to limit the
          properties displayed.You can also view property configuration values that differ
            between clusters across a deployment by selecting Non-uniform Values on the
              Configuration tab of the Cloudera Manager
                Home > Status
            page.

Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Runtime Services