Configuring S3Guard for Cluster Access to S3Cloudera Docs
Configuring S3Guard for Cluster Access to S3
Specify the AWS credentials for the Amazon S3 instance where
          you want to enable S3Guard. 
Add a new AWS credential. After adding the credential, the Edit
                S3Guard dialog box displays. 
Use an existing AWS credential:


Go to Administration > AWS Credentials.
Locate the credential you want to use and click Actions > Edit S3Guard.The Edit S3Guard
                      dialog box displays.




Select Enable S3Guard.Edit the following S3Guard configuration properties:
Table 1. S3Guard Configuration Properties

Property
Description



Automatically Create S3Guard Metadata
                      Table(fs.s3a.s3guard.ddb.table.create)API
                        Name:
s3guard_table_auto_create

When Yes is selected, the DynamoDB table that
                      stores the S3Guard metadata is automatically created if it
                      does not exist. 
When No is selected and the table does not
                      exist, running the Prune command, queries, or other jobs
                      on S3 will fail.



S3Guard Metadata Table Name(fs.s3a.s3guard.ddb.table)API
                        Name:
s3guard_table_name

The name of the DynamoDB table that stores the
                      S3Guard metadata.
By default, the table is named
                        s3guard-metadata.
                      



S3Guard Metadata Region Name(fs.s3a.s3guard.ddb.region)API
                        Name:
s3guard_region

The DynamoDB region to connect to for access to the S3Guard
                      metadata. Set this property to a valid region.



Expand the
                      Advanced section to configure the
                    following properties:


S3Guard Metadata Pruning Age(fs.s3a.s3guard.cli.prune.age)API
                        Name:
s3guard_cache_prune_age_ms

Maximum age for S3Guard metadata. Whenever the
                      Prune command runs, entries in the S3Guard metadata cache
                      older than this age will be deleted.
You can enter this value in milliseconds,
                      seconds, minutes, hours, or days. 



S3Guard Metadata Table Read
                      Capacity(fs.s3a.s3guard.ddb.table.capacity.read)API
                        Name:
s3guard_table_capacity_read

Provisioned throughput requirements, in capacity units, for read
                      operations from the DynamoDB table used for the S3Guard metadata. This value
                      is only used when creating a new DynamoDB table. After the table is created,
                      you can monitor the throughput and adjust the read capacity using the DynamoDB
                      AWS Management Console.



S3Guard Metadata Table Write
                      Capacity(fs.s3a.s3guard.ddb.table.capacity.write)API
                        Name:
s3guard_table_capacity_write

Provisioned throughput requirements, in capacity units, for write
                      operations to the DynamoDB table used for the S3Guard metadata. This value is
                      only used when creating a new DynamoDB table. After the table is created, you
                      can monitor the throughput and adjust the write capacity as needed using the
                      DynamoDB AWS Management Console.



Click Save. 
The Connect to Amazon Web Services dialog
            box displays.
To enable cluster access to S3 using the S3
            Connector Service, click the Enable for Cluster Name
 link in the Cluster Access to S3 section.  
Follow the prompts to add the S3 Connector
              Service. 
noteS3Guard is not supported for Cloud Backup and
              Restore and Cloudera Navigator Access to
              S3.

Related informationAWS CredentialsAmazon DynamoDB: Configured RegionsDynamoDB AWS Management ConsoleProvisioned ThroughputParent topic: Configuring and Managing S3Guard