Configuring Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Configuring Cloudera Manager
From the Administration menu you can select options for
    configuring settings that affect how Cloudera Manager interacts with your clusters.
Settings
The Settings page provides a number of categories as follows:
Performance - Set the Cloudera Manager Agent heartbeat interval.
Advanced - Enable API debugging and other advanced options.
Monitoring - Set Agent health status parameters. For configuration
            instructions, see the topic Configuring Cloudera Manager Agents.
Security - Set TLS encryption settings to enable TLS
            encryption between the Cloudera Manager Server, Agents, and clients.
            For configuration instructions, see Configuring TLS Encryption for
              Cloudera Manager Using Auto-TLS. You can also:
Set the realm for Kerberos security and point to a custom
                keytab retrieval script. 
Specify session timeout and a "Remember Me" option.

Ports and Addresses - Set ports for the Cloudera Manager
            Admin Console and Server. For configuration instructions, see Configuring Cloudera Manager Server Ports.
Other
Enable Cloudera usage data collection For configuration instructions, see
                  Managing Anonymous Usage Data Collection.
Set a custom header color and banner text for the Admin console.
Set an "Information Assurance Policy" statement – this statement will be presented
                to every user before they are allowed to access the login dialog box. The user must
                click "I Agree" in order to proceed to the login dialog box.
Disable/enable the auto-search for the Events panel at the bottom of a page.

Support
Configure diagnostic data collection properties. See Diagnostic Data
                  Collection.
Configure how to access Cloudera Manager help documentation.

External Authentication - Specify the configuration to use
            LDAP, Active Directory, or an external program for
            authentication.
Parcels - Configure settings for parcels, including the location of remote
            repositories that should be made available for download, and other settings such as the
            frequency with which Cloudera Manager will check for new parcels, limits on the number
            of downloads or concurrent distribution uploads. See Overview of Parcels
            for more information.
Network - Configure proxy server settings. See Configuring Network Settings for a Proxy Server.
Custom Service Descriptors - Configure custom service
            descriptor properties for Cloudera Manager Add-on Services.



You can also
        configure the following:
Alerts
Users 
Kerberos
LicenseSee Managing Licenses.

LanguageYou can change the language of the Cloudera Manager Admin Console User
              Interface through the language preference in your browser. Information on how to do
              this for the browsers supported by Cloudera Manager is shown under the Administration
              page. You can also change the language for the information provided with activity and
              health events, and for alert email messages by selecting Language, selecting
              the language you want from the drop-down list on this page, then clicking Save
                Changes.



Related informationConfiguring Cloudera Manager AgentsManaging Anonymous Usage Data CollectionDiagnostic Data CollectionAlertsConfiguring Cloudera Manager Server PortsYou can specify the ports used to access the Cloudera Manager Server using the Admin     Console. You can also specify the port used by agents to connect to the Server.Configuring Network Settings for a Proxy ServerHow to configure a poxy server for connections to Cloudera     Manager.Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Manager