Configuring Custom CgroupsCloudera Docs
Configuring Custom Cgroups
Instead of using the default Cloudera Manager cgroups for resource
    management, you can configure Custom Cgroups. You must configure these
    cgroups in the Linux environments of your cluster hosts before enabling
    Custom Cgroups in Cloudera Manager. You can configure Custom cgroups for all
    or selected roles of a service.

importantWhen you configure a custom cgroup for any service
        or role, all of the other cgroup configurations managed by Cloudera
        Manager are ignored. You cannot choose to only override a single cgroup
        subsystem. Any subsystems not defined in the custom cgroup configuration
        parameter will be set to the operating system default. 

If you have not already enabled cgroups, enable
            Resource Management with Control Groups. See
            Enabling Resource Management with Control Groups.In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to the service where
          you want to enable custom cgroups.Click the Configuration
        tab.Select
              Category > Resource
              Management.Locate the Custom Control Group Resources (overrides
            Cgroup settings) configuration parameter.To configure cgroups for all roles of the service:
Enter the names of the pre-configured cgroups you want
              to apply to the service. Separate the cgroup names using a single
              space. Use the following
                format:<subsystem>:<path>or<subsystem>,<subsystem>, ...:<path>This
                is the same format used to launch processes from the Linux
                command line using the cgexec command.
                For example, to enable a CPU control
                group:cpu:myCgroup
For more information, see the documentation for your
                operating system. 
Click Save
            Changes.
Restart the service. See Restarting a Cloudera Runtime Service.
To enable a custom cgroup for one or more roles of this
          service:
Click the Edit Individual Values
              link.A text box for each role of this service
              displays.
Enter the names of the pre-configured cgroups you want
              to apply to each role using the format described in the previous
              step.
 

Restart each role where you configured a custom cgroup.
              See Starting, Stopping, and Restarting Role Instances.


Parent topic: Linux Control Groups (cgroups)