Core Settings ServiceCloudera Docs
Core Settings Service
The Core Configuration service has been
    enhanced and renamed to Core Settings service. The
      Core Settings service allows you to create clusters
    without the HDFS service and is used to store cluster-wide settings,
    including some settings that were previously stored in HDFS or in the legacy
      Core Configuration service. 
Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
Overview
The Core Settings service allows you
        to create more types of clusters without having to include the HDFS
        service. Previously, the HDFS service was required in many cases even
        when data was not being stored in HDFS because some services like Sentry
        and Spark required cluster-wide configuration files that Cloudera
        Manager deploys using the HDFS service. The Core
          Settings service provides this configuration in a
        standalone fashion and thus eliminates the need for an HDFS service. 
Beginning with Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 the Core Settings service is
        implemented in a new way that changes how it is added to the cluster and
        what occurs during an upgrade of Cloudera Manager. There are also some
        potential changes to how the Cloudera Manager API is used to access
        configuration data stored in the Core Settings service.

New installations
For new installations, the Core Settings service is added to newly
        created clusters by default. 

Upgrades
After you upgrade to Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 (or higher), Cloudera
        Manager executes several steps when the Cloudera Manager server first
        starts after the upgrade:
The Core Settings service is automatically
            added to clusters managed by Cloudera Manager that did not have the
              Core Configuration  service.
Some Configurations will be removed from HDFS and stored in the
              Core Settings  service. See Configuration parameters migrated to Core Settings Service for a list
            of these parameters.
If the cluster already has the legacy Core
              Configuration service, Cloudera Manager will update
            this service (but keeping the original service name), and also add a
              StubDFS service. Further, the Storage
            Operations role of the Core Configuration Service is moved to the
            StubDFS service. This service provides backwards compatibility for
            services that have a mandatory DFS service dependency, allowing
            access to core configuration files..

noteAfter upgrading Cloudera Manager, some services may report stale
        configurations in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. Although
        configurations have not changed, the way they are stored has changed,
        and therefore Cloudera Manager infers that there have been changes to
        the files. To clear the stale configurations, restart the service, or
        the cluster and re-deploy the Client configurations. Where available,
        you can use the rolling restart option to avoid down time. 
noteThe Core Settings service cannot be deleted. 

The Cloudera Manager API and the Core Settings service
Calls to the Cloudera Manager API to access configuration settings that
        previously were owned by HDFS will continue to work as expected without
        code changes using the "API Compatibility Mode". This mode transparently
        redirects such API calls to perform the configuration changes on the
        Core Settings Service and is enabled by default. importantAccessing core configuration via HDFS is deprecated and the
          compatibility mode will be removed from Cloudera Manager in a later
          release.
If you want to revise your code to access the settings
        without using the Compatibility mode, change your API consumers to
        target the Core Settings service instead of HDFS.
        Cloudera highly recommends that you test and migrate your code by
        disabling the API Compatibility mode to avoid any future interruptions. 
You can test this code by disabling the API Compatibility mode:  
Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. 
Go to the HDFS service page.
Click the Configuration tab.
Search for the following configuration parameter:
              Legacy Cloudera Manager API Clients
              Compatibility.




Configuration parameters migrated to Core Settings ServiceDuring a Cloudera Manager upgrade, Cloudera Manager migrates the     parameters listed on this page to the Core Settings Service. 