Cloudera Management ServiceCloudera Docs
Cloudera Management Service
The Cloudera Management Service is a set of roles used by Cloudera
    Manager to manage and monitor clusters. 
The Cloudera Management Service implements various
      management features as a set of roles:
Host Monitor - collects health and metric information about
          hosts
Service Monitor - collects health and metric information about
          services and activity information from the YARN and Impala
          services
Event Server - aggregates relevant Hadoop events and makes them
          available for alerting and searching
Alert Publisher - generates and delivers alerts for certain types of
          events
Reports Manager - generates reports that provide an historical view
          into disk utilization by user, user group, and directory, processing
          activities by user and YARN pool, and HBase tables and namespaces.
          This role is not added in Cloudera Express.

You can view the status of the Cloudera Management Service by doing one
      of the following: 
Select Clusters > Cloudera Management Service.
On the
              Home > Status
          tab, in Cloudera Management Service table,
          click the Cloudera Management Service link.

Health Tests
Cloudera Manager monitors the health of the services,
        roles, and hosts that are running in your clusters using health
          tests. The Cloudera Management Service also provides health
        tests for its roles. Role-based health tests are enabled by default. For
        example, a simple health test is whether there's enough disk space in
        every NameNode data directory. A more complicated health test may
        evaluate when the last checkpoint for HDFS was compared to a threshold
        or whether a DataNode is connected to a NameNode. Some of these health
        tests also aggregate other health tests: in a distributed system like
        HDFS, it's normal to have a few DataNodes down (assuming you've got
        dozens of hosts), so we allow for setting thresholds on what percentage
        of hosts should color the entire service down.
Health tests can return one of three values:
          Good, Concerning, and Bad. A test returns
          Concerning health if the test falls below a warning threshold.
        A test returns Bad if the test falls below a critical threshold.
        The overall health of a service or role instance is a roll-up of its
        health tests. If any health test is Concerning (but none are
          Bad) the role's or service's health is Concerning; if
        any health test is Bad, the service's or role's health is
          Bad.
In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, health tests
        results are indicated with colors: Good
, Concerning
, and Bad
.
One common question is whether monitoring can be separated from configuration.
          One of the goals for monitoring is to enable it without needing to do
          additional configuration and installing additional tools (for example,
          Nagios). By having a deep model of the configuration, Cloudera Manager
          is able to know which directories to monitor, which ports to use, and
          what credentials to use for those ports. This tight coupling means
          that, when you install Cloudera Manager all the monitoring is enabled.

Metric Collection and Display
To perform monitoring, the Service Monitor and Host Monitor collects metrics. A
          metric is a numeric value, associated with a name (for
          example, "CPU seconds"), an entity it applies to ("host17"), and a
          timestamp. Most metric collection is performed by the Agent. The Agent
          communicates with a supervised process, requests the metrics, and
          forwards them to the Service Monitor. In most cases, this is done once
          per minute.
A few special metrics are collected by the Service Monitor. For example, the
          Service Monitor hosts an HDFS canary, which tries to write, read, and
          delete a file from HDFS at regular intervals, and measure whether it
          succeeded, and how long it took. Once metrics are received, they're
          aggregated and stored.
Using the Charts page in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, you can query and
          explore the metrics being collected. Charts display time
          series, which are streams of metric data points for a specific
          entity. Each metric data point contains a timestamp and the value of
          that metric at that timestamp.
Some metrics (for example, total_cpu_seconds) are counters, and
          the appropriate way to query them is to take their rate over time,
          which is why a lot of metrics queries contain the dt0
          function. For example, dt0(total_cpu_seconds). (The
          dt0 syntax is intended to remind you of derivatives.
          The 0 indicates that the rate of a monotonically increasing counter should never have
          negative rates.)

Events, Alerts, and Triggers
An event is a record that something of
        interest has occurred – a service's health has changed state, a log
        message (of the appropriate severity) has been logged, and so on. Many
        events are enabled and configured by default.
An alert is an event that is considered
        especially noteworthy and is triggered by a selected event. Alerts are
        shown with an  badge when they appear in a list of events. You
        can configure the Alert Publisher to send alert notifications by email
        or by SNMP trap to a trap receiver.
A trigger is a statement that specifies
        an action to be taken when one or more specified conditions are met for
        a service, role, role configuration group, or host. The conditions are
        expressed as a tsquery statement, and the action to be taken is to
        change the health for the service, role, role configuration group, or
        host to either Concerning (yellow) or Bad (red).


Starting the Cloudera Management ServiceHow to start the Cloudera Management Service. Stopping the Cloudera Management ServiceHow to stop the Cloudera Management Service. Restarting the Cloudera Management ServiceHow to restart the Cloudera Management Service. Starting and Stopping Cloudera Management Service Roles Configuring Management Service Database LimitsConfiguring database service limits lets you control the amount     of retained monitoring data. 