Enabling and Configuring Static Service PoolsCloudera Docs
Enabling and Configuring Static Service Pools
To enable and configure static service pools, you enter the percentage of resources
    to allocate to each service and then restart the cluster.

Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.

Select
                Clusters > Cluster
                name > Static Service
              Pools.Click the Configuration tab. The
            Step 1 of 4: Basic Allocation Setup page displays. In each
          field in the basic allocation table, enter the percentage of resources
          to give to each service. The total must add up to
        100%. Click Continue to
            proceed.Step 2: Review Changes - The
          allocation of resources for each resource type and role displays with
          the new values as well as the values previously in effect. The values
          for each role are set by role group; if there is more than one role
          group for a given role type (for example, for RegionServers or
          DataNodes) then resources will be allocated separately for the hosts
          in each role group. Take note of changed settings. If you have previously
          customized these settings, check these over carefully:
Click the  to the right of each
            percentage to display the allocations for a single service. Click
               to the right of the Total (100%) to view
            all the allocations in a single page.
Click the Back button to go to the previous page and
            change your allocations.
When you are satisfied with the allocations, click
            Continue.The Step 3 of
            4: Restart Services page displays.To apply the new allocation percentages, click Restart Now to restart the
          cluster. To skip this step, click Restart Later. If HDFS High Availability is
          enabled, you will have the option to choose a rolling restart.Step 4 of 4: Progress displays the status of the restart
          commands. Click Finished after the restart commands
          complete.After you enable static service pools, there are three
        additional tasks:Delete everything under the local directory path on NodeManager
          hosts. The local directory path is configurable, and can be verified
          in Cloudera Manager with YARN > Configuration > NodeManager Local Directories.Enable cgroups for resource management. You can enable cgroups
          in Cloudera Manager with Yarn > Configuration > Use CGroups for Resource Management.If you are using the optional Impala scratch directory, delete
          all files in the Impala scratch directory. The directory path is
          configurable, and can be verified in Cloudera Manager with Impala > Configuration > Impala Daemon Scratch Directories.

Parent topic: Static Service Pools