Configuring Cloudera Manager for High AvailabilityCloudera Docs
Configuring Cloudera Manager for High Availability
You can configure Cloudera Manager for high availability. This
    configuration provides failover capability in case an instance of Cloudera
    Manager fails. 

noteCloudera Manager high availability feature is only supported with
        CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 version or higher.

These steps configure Cloudera Manager into an highly available
      Active-Passive configuration. The Active-Passive configuration supports
      only 2 hosts running Cloudera Manager along with an external load
      balancer. Load balancer configuration defines the active vs passive hosts
      and active host serves all requests during normal operation. The load
      balancer monitors both active and passive hosts and automatically diverts
      requests to the passive host if the active host is unresponsive for a
      given (configured in the load balancer) period of time. If the active host
      becomes available again, the load balancer automatically redirects the
      requests back to the active host. Cloudera Manager also internally uses a
      priority parameter to decide which host will take the active role to
      process commands within the system and which host will take over the
      passive role when both hosts boot up and become functional.
Figure 1. Architecture

Requirements for configuring Cloudera Manager for high availabilityPrerequisites for configuring Cloudera Manager for high     availability. User impacts and limitations for Cloudera Manager in high availability modeThere are impacts and limitations you should be aware of when using     Cloudera Manager in high-availablity mode.Installing Cloudera Manager with High AvailabilitySteps to install Cloudera Manager with high     availability.Sample Configuration Files for HAProxyYou can use the supplied configuration files to configure the     HAProxy load balancer for deployments with and without TLS or as a guide     when using a different type of load balancer.