Host TemplatesCloudera Docs
Host Templates
The Host Templates page lets you create and
    manage host templates, which provide a way to specify a set of role
    configurations that should be applied to a host. 
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
Host templates let you designate a set of role groups that can be applied
      in a single operation to a host or a set of hosts. This significantly
      simplifies the process of configuring new hosts when you need to expand
      your cluster. 
importantA host template can only be applied on a host with a
      version of Cloudera Runtime that matches the Cloudera Runtime version
      running on the cluster to which the host template belongs.
You can create and manage host templates by clicking
          Hosts > Host
        Templates.
Templates are not required; Cloudera Manager assigns roles and role groups to
      the hosts of your cluster when you perform the initial cluster
      installation. However, if you want to add new hosts to your cluster, a
      host template can make this much easier.
If there are existing host templates, they are listed on the page, along with
      links to each role group included in the template.
If you are managing multiple clusters, you must create separate host templates
      for each cluster, as the templates specify role configurations specific to
      the roles in a single cluster. Existing host templates are listed under
      the cluster to which they apply.

You can click a role group name to be taken to the Edit configuration page for
        that role group, where you can modify the role group settings.
From the Actions menu associated with the template you can edit the
        template, clone it, or delete it.


Creating a Host TemplateWhen you create a host template, you choose a name for the template and select     appropriate role groups for each role.Editing a Host TemplateYou can edit the name of a host template, in addition to any of the role group     selections.Deleting a Host TemplateYou can delete a Host Template using the Cloudera Manager Admin     Console.Applying a Host Template to a HostYou can use a host template to apply configurations for multiple roles in a single     operation.Parent topic: Managing Hosts