Installing Atlas using Add ServiceCloudera Docs
Installing Atlas using Add Service 
You can install Atlas service in your Cloudera Manager instance by using the Add
        Service method.

From Cloudera Manager > select Add
                        Service menu option.

On the Add Service page, Select
                        Atlas and click Continue. You
                    will be navigated to a new listing page that prompts you to follow the next set
                    of instructions.

Choose Select Dependencies. 

Make sure that there are no additional dependencies required on your Cloudera
                        Manager cluster. 


Click Continue.

Select Assign Roles by selecting the host where Atlas is
                    to be added. You must also add the Gateway (optional) but
                    recommended. 

Select Continue.

You must assign roles and also make sure you do not assign
                        additional roles that can impact the overall performance.




Review the changes and ensure that the following fields (depending on the
                    installation type that you have chosen) are marked as checked. For more
                    information, review the Atlas installation prerequisite section.


(Optional) Enable Kerberos Authentication - Atlas
                            (Service-Wide)
(Optional) Enable File Authentication - Atlas Service Default
                            Group 



You must add the Admin Password as
                        applicable.





Review the Command Details and make sure that the
                    installation proceeds on the expected lines. 

Click Continue.





When using a fresh Cloudera Manager cluster, collections are created
                    directly.

Summarise the installation process to confirm that Atlas service is installed
                        and configured on your Cloudera Manager cluster.


Once the installation is complete, to bring up Atlas on your Cloudera Manager
                    cluster, restart the Atlas service.

Once Atlas is installed, you must restart stale configurations.


Related informationPrerequisites for installing AtlasDeploying Atlas serviceParent topic: Adding a Service