Migrating from the Cloudera Manager Embedded PostgreSQL Database Server to an External PostgreSQL DatabaseCloudera Docs
Migrating from the Cloudera Manager Embedded PostgreSQL Database Server to an External
    PostgreSQL Database 


Cloudera Manager provides an embedded PostgreSQL database server for demonstration and
        proof of concept deployments when creating a cluster. To remind users that this embedded
        database is not suitable for production, Cloudera Manager displays the banner text: "You are
        running Cloudera Manager in non-production mode, which uses an embedded PostgreSQL database.
        Switch to using a supported external database before moving into production." 
If, however, you have already used the embedded database, and you are unable to redeploy a
        fresh cluster, then you must migrate to an external PostgreSQL database. 

noteThis procedure does not describe how to migrate to a database server other than
          PostgreSQL. Moving databases from one database server to a different type of database
          server is a complex process that requires modification of the schema and matching the data
          in the database tables to the new schema. It is strongly recommended that you engage with
          Cloudera Professional Services if you wish to perform a migration to an external database
          server other than PostgreSQL. 


Prerequisites
 Before migrating the Cloudera Manager embedded PostgreSQL database to an external
        PostgreSQL database, ensure that your setup meets the following conditions:


 The external PostgreSQL database server is running. 
 The database server is configured to accept remote connections. 
 The database server is configured to accept user logins using md5. 
 No one has manually created any databases in the external database server for roles
            that will be migrated. noteTo view a list of databases in the external database server
              (requires default superuser
              permission):sudo -u postgres psql -l
 All health issues with your cluster have been resolved.


 For details about configuring the database server, see the topic Configuring and
          Starting the PostgreSQL Server. 

important Only perform the steps in Configuring and Starting the
            PostgreSQL Server. Do not proceed with the creation of databases as
          described in the subsequent section. 

 For large clusters, Cloudera recommends running your database server on a dedicated host.
        Engage Cloudera Professional Services or a certified database administrator to correctly
        tune your external database server. 


Step 1: Identify Roles that Use the Embedded Database ServerBefore you can migrate to another database server, you must first identify the     databases using the embedded database server. When the Cloudera Manager Embedded Database server     is initialized, it creates the Cloudera Manager database and databases for roles in the     Management Services. The Installation Wizard (which runs automatically the first time you log in     to Cloudera Manager) or Add Service action for a cluster creates additional databases for     roles when run. It is in this context that you identify which roles are used in the embedded     database server.Step 2: Migrate Databases from the Embedded Database Server to the External PostgreSQL Database ServerAfter you identify the roles that use the embedded database server, you can migrate     from the Cloudera Manager embedded database server to the external PostgreSQL database server.     When you migrate, you export the PostgreSQL user roles from the embedded database, import the     PostgreSQL user roles into the external database, import the Cloudera Manager database on the     external database server, and perform other tasks. Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Manager