Managing ParcelsCloudera Docs
Managing Parcels
Procedures for managing Parcels. 
On the
      Parcels page in Cloudera Manager, you can manage parcel installation and activation and
      determine which parcel versions are running across your clusters. The Parcels page displays a
      list of parcels managed by Cloudera Manager. Cloudera Manager displays the name, version, and
      status of each parcel and provides available actions on the parcel. 
Cloudera Manager Agent employs the flood - BitTorrent file distribution daemon to distribute
      parcels.
When the number of hosts grows large, download of parcels takes place in a consistent manner.
      The BitTorrent file distribution helps avoid choking Cloudera Manager with large number of
      download requests from agents.
The BitTorrent file distribution attempts to fetch pieces from all registered torrents either
      from its peers or from the seed HTTP URL (if provided). 
Accessing the Parcels Page
Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
Access the Parcels page by doing one of the following:
Click the parcel icon in the top navigation bar.
Click the Hosts in the top navigation bar, then the
                Parcels tab.


Use the selectors on the left side of the console to filter the
          displayed parcels: 


Location selector - View only parcels that
            are available remotely, only parcels pertaining to a particular
            cluster, or parcels pertaining to all clusters. When you access the
            Parcels page, the selector is set to Available Remotely.

Error Status section of the
              Filters selector - Limit the list of
            displayed parcels by error status. 

Parcel Name section of the
              Filters selector - Limit the list of
            displayed parcels by parcel name. 

Status section of the
              Filters selector - Limit the list to
            parcels that have been distributed, parcels that have not been
            distributed (Other), or all parcels.

When you download a parcel, it appears in the list for each cluster
          managed by Cloudera Manager, indicating that the parcel is available
          for distribution on those clusters. Only one copy of the downloaded
          parcel resides on the Cloudera Manager Server. After you distribute
          the parcel, Cloudera Manager copies the parcel to the hosts in that
          cluster.
For example, if Cloudera Manager is managing two clusters, the rows
          in the All Clusters page list the information about the parcels on the
          two clusters. The Status column displays the current status of the
          parcels. The Version column displays version information about the
          parcel. Click the information icon to view the release notes for the
          parcel. The Actions column shows actions you can perform on the
          parcels, such as download, distribute, delete, deactivate, and remove
          from host.






Downloading a Parcel
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.

Go to the Parcels page. In the Location
          selector, click 
ClusterName
 or Available Remotely. Parcels that are available for
          download display the Available Remotely status and a Download
            button.If the parcel you want is not shown
            here—for example, you want to upgrade to a version of CDH that is
            not the most current version—you can make additional remote parcel
            repositories available. You can also configure the location of the
            local parcel repository and other settings. See Parcel Configuration Settings.
If a parcel version is too new to be supported
            by the Cloudera Manager version, the parcel appears with a red
            background and error message:

Such parcels are also listed when you select the Error status
            in the Error Status section of the Filters selector.

Click the Download button of the parcel you want to
            download  to your local repository. The status changes to
            Downloading.

After a parcel has been downloaded, it is removed from the Available
          Remotely page.

Distributing a Parcel
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
Downloaded parcels can be distributed to the hosts in your cluster
          and made available for activation. Parcels are downloaded to the
          Cloudera Manager Server, so with multiple clusters, the downloaded
          parcels are shown as available to all clusters managed by the
          Cloudera Manager Server. However, you select distribution to a
          specific cluster's hosts on a cluster-by-cluster basis.

From the Parcels page, in the Location selector, select the
            cluster where you want to distribute the parcel, or select
              All Clusters. (The first cluster in the
            list is selected by default when you open the Parcels page.)
Click Distribute for the parcel you want to distribute. The
            status changes to Distributing. During
            distribution, you can: 
Click the Details link in the Status
                column to view the Parcel Distribution
                  Status page.
Click Cancel to cancel the
                distribution. When the Distribute action completes, the button
                changes to Activate, and you can click
                the Distributed status link to view the
                status page.



Distribution does not require Internet access; the Cloudera Manager
          Agent on each cluster member downloads the parcel from the local
          parcel repository hosted on the Cloudera Manager Server.
If you have a large number of hosts to which
        parcels must be distributed, you can control how many concurrent uploads
        Cloudera Manager performs. See Parcel Configuration Settings.
To delete a parcel that is ready to be distributed, click the
          triangle at the right end of the Distribute
          button and select Delete. This deletes the
          parcel from the local parcel repository.
Distributing parcels to the hosts in the cluster does not affect the
          current running services.

Activating a Parcel
Parcels that have been distributed to the hosts in a cluster are
          ready to be activated.

From the Parcels page, in the Location selector, choose
                
ClusterName
 or
              All Clusters, and click the Activate
            button for the parcel you want to activate. This updates Cloudera
            Manager to point to the new software, which is ready to run the next
            time a service is restarted. A pop-up indicates which services must
            be restarted to use the new parcel. 
Choose one of the following:

Restart - Activate the parcel and
                restart services affected by the new parcel.

Activate Only - Active the parcel. You
                can restart services at a time that is convenient. If you do not
                restart services as part of the activation process, you must
                restart them at a later time. Until you restart services, the
                current parcel continues to run. 


Click OK.

Activating a new parcel also deactivates the previously active parcel
          for the product you just upgraded. However, until you restart the
          services, the previously active parcel displays a status of Still
            in use because the services are using that parcel, and you
          cannot remove the parcel until it is no longer being used.
If the parcel you activate updates the software for only a subset of
          services, even if you restart all of that subset, the previously
          active parcel displays Still in use until you restart the
          remaining services. For example, if you are running HDFS, YARN, Oozie,
          Hue, Impala, and Spark services, and you activate a parcel that
          updates only the Oozie service, the pop-up that displays instructs you
          to restart only the Oozie and Hue services. Because the older parcel
          is still in use by the HDFS, YARN, Impala, and Spark services, the
          parcel page shows that parcel as Still in use
          until you restart these remaining services.
Sometimes additional upgrade steps may be
        required. In this case, instead of Activate, the button will say Upgrade. 

Deactivating a Parcel
You can deactivate an active parcel; this updates Cloudera Manager to
          point to the previous software version, which is ready to run the next
          time a service is restarted. From the Parcels page, choose
              
ClusterName
 or
            All Clusters in the Location selector, and
          click the Deactivate button on an activated parcel.
To use the previous version of the software, restart your services.
importantIf you originally installed from parcels, and one
          version of the software is installed (that is, no packages, and no
          previous parcels have been activated and started), when you attempt to
          restart after deactivating the current version, your roles will be
          stopped and will not be able to restart.

Removing a Parcel
From the Parcels page, in the Location selector, choose
              
ClusterName
 or
            All Clusters, click the  to the
          right of an Activate button, and select Remove from
            Hosts.

Deleting a Parcel
From the Parcels page, in the Location selector, choose
              
ClusterName
 or
            All Clusters, and click the  to the
          right of a Distribute button, and select Delete.
warning
Note: Do not remove the Cloudera Runtime parcel entirely from
          Cloudera Manager unless it is no longer in use on any other cluster
          managed by this instance of Cloudera Manager. To remove a parcel from
          specific managed hosts, select the Remove from
            Hosts option instead of the
            Delete option.


Changing the Parcel Directory
The default location of the parcel directory is /opt/cloudera/parcels. To
        relocate distributed parcels to a different directory, do the
        following:

Stop all services.

Deactivate all in-use parcels.

Shut down the Cloudera Manager Agent on
          all hosts.
Move the existing parcels to the new
          location.

Configure the host parcel directory.

Start the Cloudera Manager Agents.

Activate the parcels.
Start all services.


Troubleshooting
 If you experience an error while performing parcel operations, click
        the red 'X' icons on the parcel page to display a message that
        identifies the source of the error. 
If a parcel is being distributed but never
        completes, make sure you have enough free space in the parcel download
        directories, because Cloudera Manager will try to download and unpack
        parcels even if there is insufficient space.


Parent topic: Overview of Parcels