Migrating from the Cloudera Manager External PostgreSQL Database Server to a MySQL/Oracle Database ServerCloudera Docs
Migrating from the Cloudera Manager External PostgreSQL Database Server
    to a MySQL/Oracle Database Server

Cloudera Manager provides an embedded PostgreSQL database server for
      demonstration and proof of concept deployments when creating a cluster. To
      remind users that this embedded database is not suitable for production,
      Cloudera Manager displays the banner text: "You are running Cloudera
      Manager in non-production mode, which uses an embedded PostgreSQL
      database. Switch to using a supported external database before moving into
      production." 
If you have already used the embedded database, and you are unable to redeploy a fresh
      cluster, then you must migrate to an external PostgreSQL database.noteYou can migrate
        to an external MySQL or Oracle database only after successfully migrating from the
        embedded PostgreSQL database server to the external PostgreSQL database server.


Migrate from the Cloudera Manager External PostgreSQL Database Server to a MySQL/Oracle Database ServerWhen you migrate from the Cloudera Manager external PostgreSQL database server to a     MySQL or Oracle database server, you export the Cloudera Manager configuration, prepare the     target database for Cloudera Manager, and complete other tasks.Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Manager
Prerequisites  

 Before migrating from the Cloudera Manager external PostgreSQL
        database to an external MySQL/Oracle database, ensure that your setup
        meets the following conditions: 
Configuration uses Cloudera Manager 5.15.0 or later on supported
            platforms.
You must have a valid Cloudera Manager Enterprise license.
If Cloudera Manager is secured, then you must import Kerberos account manager
            credentials and regenerate them. 
You must have a destination host installed with the supported database of choice
            (MySQL or Oracle). For details about installing and configuring MySQL for Cloudera, see
            the topic Install and Configure MySQL for Cloudera Software. For details
            about installing and configuring Oracle for Cloudera, see the topic Install and
              Configure Oracle Database Software for Cloudera Software.
You have made configured target database hosts available.
You have planned for cluster downtime during the migration
            process.
You have a plan to follow service specific database migration instructions for
            services other than Cloudera Manager. Refer to the appropriate service migration
            documentation for your cluster setup.
No one has manually created any databases in the external database
            server for roles that will be migrated. 
 All health issues with your cluster are resolved.


        For large clusters, Cloudera recommends running your database server
        on a dedicated host. Engage Cloudera Professional Services or a
        certified database administrator to correctly tune your external
        database server.
        


