Moving the Cloudera Manager Server to a New HostCloudera Docs
Moving the Cloudera Manager Server to a New Host
You can move the Cloudera Manager Server if either the Cloudera Manager database
    server or a current backup of the Cloudera Manager database is available. 

Identify a new host on which to install Cloudera Manager.Install Cloudera Manager on a new host, using the method described in the topic
            Install the Cloudera Manager Server Packages. 
important

The Cloudera Manager version on the destination host must match the version
                on the source host. 
Do not install the other components, such as CDH and databases.


Copy the entire contents of the
            /var/lib/cloudera-scm-server/ directory on the old
          host to that same path on the new host. Ensure you preserve
          permissions and all file contents.Copy the entire contents of the local parcel directory on the
          old host to that same path on the new host. Ensure you preserve
          permissions and all file contents.  (The default location is
            /opt/cloudera/parcel-repo but this can be
          configured with the Local Parcel Repository
            Path configuration property, under
              Administration > Settings.)If the database server is not available:
Install the database packages on the host that will host the restored
              database. This could be the same host on which you have just installed Cloudera
              Manager or it could be a different host. If you used the embedded PostgreSQL database,
              install the PostgreSQL package as described in the topic Managing the Embedded
                PostgreSQL Database. If you used an external MySQL, PostgreSQL, or Oracle
              database, reinstall the database following the instructions in Step 4: Install
                and Configure Databases.
Restore the backed up databases to the new database
            installation.

Update /etc/cloudera-scm-server/db.properties with the database
          name, database instance name, username, and password.Do the following on all cluster hosts: 
In /etc/cloudera-scm-agent/config.ini, update the
                server_host property to the new hostname.
If you are replacing the Cloudera Manager database with a new database, and
              you are not using a backup of the original Cloudera Manager database, delete the
                /var/lib/cloudera-scm-agent/cm_guid file. 
Restart the agent using the following command: 
sudo service cloudera-scm-agent restart

Stop the Cloudera Manager server on the source host by running
          the following command:
service cloudera-scm-server stop
Copy any Custom Service Descriptor files for add-on services to
          the configured directory on the new Cloudera Manager host. The
          directory path is configured by going to
              Administration > Settings
          and editing the Local Descriptor Repository Path
           property. The default value
            is/opt/cloudera/csd. See Add-on Services. Start the Cloudera Manager Server on the new (destination)
          host. Cloudera Manager should resume functioning as it did before the
          failure. Because you restored the database from the backup, the server
          should accept the running state of the Agents, meaning it will not
          terminate any running processes.The process is similar
          with secure clusters, though files in
            /etc/cloudera-scm-server must be restored in
          addition to the database. See the Security
          documentation.

Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Manager