Maintenance ModeCloudera Docs
Maintenance Mode
Maintenance mode allows you to suppress alerts for a host, service,
    role, or an entire cluster. This can be useful when you need to take actions
    in your cluster (make configuration changes and restart various elements)
    and do not want to see the alerts that will be generated due to those
    actions.
Putting an entity into maintenance mode does not prevent events from
      being logged; it only suppresses the alerts that those events would
      otherwise generate. You can see a history of all the events that were
      recorded for entities during the period that those entities were in
      maintenance mode.
Explicit and Effective Maintenance Mode
When you enter maintenance mode on an entity (cluster, service, or
        host) that has subordinate entities (for example, the roles for a
        service) the subordinate entities are also put into maintenance mode.
        These are considered to be in effective maintenance mode,
        as they have inherited the setting from the higher-level entity.
For example:
If you set the HBase service into maintenance mode, then its roles
            (HBase Master and all RegionServers) are put into effective
            maintenance mode.
If you set a host into maintenance mode, then any roles running on
            that host are put into effective maintenance mode.

Entities that have been explicitly put into maintenance mode show the
        icon . Entities that have entered
        effective maintenance mode as a result of inheritance from a
        higher-level entity show the icon .
When an entity (role, host or service) is in effective maintenance
        mode, it can only be removed from maintenance mode when the higher-level
        entity exits maintenance mode. For example, if you put a service into
        maintenance mode, the roles associated with that service are entered
        into effective maintenance mode, and remain in effective maintenance
        mode until the service exits maintenance mode. You cannot remove them
        from maintenance mode individually.
Alternatively, an entity that is in effective maintenance mode can be
        put into explicit maintenance mode. In this case, the entity remains in
        maintenance mode even when the higher-level entity exits maintenance
        mode. For example, suppose you put a host into maintenance mode, (which
        puts all the roles on that host into effective maintenance mode). You
        then select one of the roles on that host and put it explicitly into
        maintenance mode. When you have the host exit maintenance mode, that one
        role remains in maintenance mode. You need to select it individually and
        specifically have it exit maintenance mode.


Parent topic: Performing Maintenance on a Cluster Host
Entering Maintenance Mode
You can enable maintenance mode for a cluster, service, role, or
      host.
Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
Putting a Cluster into Maintenance Mode

In the left menu, click
                Clusters > <cluster
              name>.
Click the Actions menu () to the right of the
            cluster name and select Enter Maintenance Mode.
Confirm that you want to do this.

The cluster is put into explicit maintenance mode, as indicated by
          the  icon. All services and
          roles in the cluster are entered into effective maintenance mode, as
          indicated by the  icon.

Putting a Service into Maintenance Mode

In the left menu, click Clusters and select the service.
Click Actions > Enter
                Maintenance Mode.
Confirm that you want to do this.

The service is put into explicit maintenance mode, as indicated by
          the  icon. All roles for the
          service are entered into effective maintenance mode, as indicated by
          the  icon.

Putting Roles into Maintenance Mode

In the left menu, click Clusters and select the service.
Click the Instances tab.
Select the role(s) you want to put into maintenance mode.
From the Actions for Selected menu, select Enter
              Maintenance Mode.
Confirm that you want to do this.

The roles will be put in explicit maintenance mode. If the roles were
          already in effective maintenance mode (because its service or host was
          put into maintenance mode) the roles will now be in explicit
          maintenance mode. This means that they will not exit maintenance mode
          automatically if their host or service exits maintenance mode; they
          must be explicitly removed from maintenance mode.

Putting Hosts into Maintenance Mode

In Cloudera Manager, select the cluster where you want to
            decommission hosts.
Click Hosts > All
                Hosts.
Select the hosts that you want to put into Maintenance Mode.
Select Actions for
                Selected > Begin Maintenance (Suppress
                Alerts/Decommission.The
                Begin Maintenance (Suppress
                Alerts/Decommission) dialog box opens. The role
              instances running on the hosts display at the top. You can also
              use this dialog box to decommission the host. 
Deselect the Decommission Host(s) option to
            put the host into Maintenance Mode. In this
            mode, alerts from the hosts are suppressed until the host exits
            Maintenance Mode. The events, however, are still logged. Hosts that
            are currently in Maintenance Mode display the  icon.
Click Begin Maintenance. The
                Host Decommission Command dialog box
              opens and displays the progress of the command.





Exiting Maintenance Mode
When you exit maintenance mode, the maintenance mode icons are
      removed and alert notification resumes.
Exiting a Cluster from Maintenance Mode

Click  to the right of the cluster name and select Exit
              Maintenance Mode.
Confirm that you want to do this.


Exiting a Service from Maintenance Mode

Click  to the right of the service name and select Exit
              Maintenance Mode.
Confirm that you want to do this.


Exiting Roles from Maintenance Mode

Go to the services page that includes the role.
Go to the Instances tab.
Select the role(s) you want to exit from maintenance mode.
From the Actions for Selected menu, select Exit
              Maintenance Mode.
Confirm that you want to do this.


Taking Hosts out of Maintenance Mode

In Cloudera Manager, to go the cluster with the hosts you want to
            take out of Maintenance Mode.
Click Hosts > All
                Hosts.
Select the hosts that are ready to exit Maintenance Mode.
Select Actions for
                Selected > End Maintenance (Suppress
                Alerts/Decommission.The
                End Maintenance (Suppress
                Alerts/Decommission) dialog box opens. The role
              instances running on the hosts display at the top. 
Deselect the Recommission Host(s) option to
            take the host out of Maintenance Mode and re-enable alerts from the
            hosts. Hosts that are currently in Maintenance Mode display the
               icon on the
              All Hosts page.
Click End Maintenance.




