Other Cloudera Manager Tasks and SettingsCloudera Docs
Other Cloudera Manager Tasks and Settings
From the Administration tab you can select options for
    configuring settings that affect how Cloudera Manager interacts with your clusters.
Settings
The Settings page provides a number of categories as follows:
Performance - Set the Cloudera Manager Agent heartbeat interval.
Advanced - Enable API debugging and other advanced options.
Monitoring - Set Agent health status parameters. 
Security - Set TLS encryption settings to enable TLS encryption between the
            Cloudera Manager Server, Agents, and clients. You can also:
Set the realm for Kerberos security and point to a custom keytab retrieval script. 
Specify session timeout and a "Remember Me" option.

Ports and Addresses - Set ports for the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and
            Server. 
Other
Enable Cloudera usage data collection. 
Set a custom header color and banner text for the Admin console.
Set an "Information Assurance Policy" statement – this statement will be presented
                to every user before they are allowed to access the login dialog box. The user must
                click "I Agree" in order to proceed to the login dialog box.
Disable/enable the auto-search for the Events panel at the bottom of a page.

Support
Configure diagnostic data collection properties. 
Configure how to access Cloudera Manager help files.

External Authentication - Specify the configuration to use LDAP, Active
            Directory, or an external program for authentication. 
Parcels - Configure settings for parcels, including the location of remote
            repositories that should be made available for download, and other settings such as the
            frequency with which Cloudera Manager will check for new parcels, limits on the number
            of downloads or concurrent distribution uploads. See Parcels for more information.
Network - Configure proxy server settings. 
Custom Service Descriptors - Configure custom service descriptor properties for
            Add-on services.


Alerts
See Managing Alerts.

Users
See Cloudera Manager User Accounts.

Kerberos
See Enabling Kerberos Authentication for Cloudera Runtime.

License
See Managing Licenses.

User Interface Language
You can change the language of the Cloudera Manager Admin Console User Interface through
        the language preference in your browser. Information on how to do this for the browsers
        supported by Cloudera Manager is shown under the Administration page. You can also change
        the language for the information provided with activity and health events, and for alert
        email messages by selecting Language, selecting the language you want from the
        drop-down list on this page, then clicking Save Changes.

Peers
See Designating a Replication Source.


Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Manager