Parcel Life CycleCloudera Docs
Parcel Life Cycle

To enable upgrades and additions with minimal
        disruption, parcels have following phases:

Downloaded -The parcel software is copied to a local parcel
            directory on the Cloudera Manager Server, where it is available for
            distribution to other hosts in any of the clusters managed by this
            Cloudera Manager Server. You can have multiple parcels for a product
            downloaded to your Cloudera Manager Server. After a parcel has been
            downloaded to the Server, it is available for distribution on all
            clusters managed by the Server. A downloaded parcel appears in the
            cluster-specific section for every cluster managed by this Cloudera
            Manager Server.

Distributed - The parcel is copied to the cluster hosts,
            and components of the parcel are unpacked. Distributing a parcel
            does not upgrade the components running on your cluster; the current
            services continue to run unchanged. You can have multiple parcels
            distributed on your cluster. Distributing parcels does not require
            Internet access; the Cloudera Manager Agent on each cluster member
            downloads the parcels from the local parcel repository on the
            Cloudera Manager Server.

Activated - Links to the parcel
          components are created. Activation does not automatically stop the
          current services or perform a restart. You can restart services after
          activation, or the system administrator can determine when to perform
          those operations. 

In Use - The parcel components on the cluster hosts are in
            use when you start or restart the services that use those
            components. 

Deactivated - The links to the parcel components are
            removed from the cluster hosts.

Removed - The parcel components are removed from the
            cluster hosts.

Deleted - The parcel is deleted from the local parcel
            repository on the Cloudera Manager Server.


Cloudera Manager detects when new parcels are
      available. You can configure Cloudera Manager to download and distribute
      parcels automatically. .

Parent topic: Overview of Parcels