Parcel Configuration SettingsCloudera Docs
Parcel Configuration Settings

You can configure where parcels are stored on the Cloudera Manager Server host,
        the URLs of parcel repositories, the properties of a proxy server
        through which parcels are downloaded, and where parcels distributed to
        cluster hosts are stored.
Configuring Cloudera Manager Server Parcel Settings
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.

Use one of the following methods to open the parcel settings page:

Navigation bar

Click the parcel icon in the top navigation bar or click
                      Hosts and click the
                      Parcels tab.
Click the Configuration button.



Menu

Select
                        Administration > Settings.
Select
                        Category > Parcels.




Specify a property:

Local Parcel Repository Path defines the path on the Cloudera Manager
                Server host where downloaded parcels are stored.

Remote Parcel Repository URLs is
              a list of repositories that Cloudera Manager checks for parcels.
              Initially this points to the latest released CDH 5 and CDH
              6repositories, but you can add your own repository locations to
              the list. Use this mechanism to add Cloudera repositories that are
              not listed by default, such as older versions of CDH. You can also
              use this to add your own custom repositories. The locations
              of the Cloudera parcel repositories are https://archive.cloudera.com/product/parcels/version
, where product is a product name and version is a
              specific product version, latest, or the substitution variable {latest_supported}. The
              substitution variable appears after the parcel for the CDH version
              with the same major number as the Cloudera Manager version to
              enable substitution of the latest supported maintenance version of
                CDH.To add a parcel repository:
In the Remote Parcel Repository
                      URLs list, click the addition symbol to open an
                    additional row.
Enter the path to
                    the repository.





Click Save Changes.

You can also:
Set the frequency with which Cloudera Manager checks for new
              parcels.
Configure a proxy to access to the remote repositories.
Configure whether downloads and distribution of parcels should
              occur automatically when new ones are detected. If automatic
              downloading and distribution are not enabled (the default), go to
              the Parcels page to initiate these actions.
Control which products can be downloaded if automatic downloading is enabled.
Control whether to retain downloaded parcels.
Control whether to retain old parcel versions and how many
              parcel versions to retain


You can tune the parcel distribution load on your network by
          configuring the bandwidth limits and the number of concurrent uploads.
          The defaults are up to 50 MiB/s aggregate bandwidth and 50 concurrent
          parcel uploads.
Theoretically, the concurrent upload count (Maximum Parcel
                Uploads) is unimportant if all hosts have the same speed
              Ethernet. Fifty concurrent uploads is acceptable in most cases.
              However, if the server has more bandwidth (for example, 10 GbE,
              and the normal hosts are using 1 GbE), then the count is important
              to maximize bandwidth. It should be at least the difference in
              speeds (10x in this case).
The bandwidth limit (Parcel Distribution Rate Limit)
              should be your Ethernet speed (in MiB/seconds) divided by
              approximately 16. You can use a higher limit if you have QoS
              configured to prevent starving other services, or if you can
              accept the risk associated with higher bandwidth load.



Configuring a Proxy Server
To configure a proxy server thorough which data and
      parcels are downloaded to and uploaded from the Cloudera Manager Server,
      do the following:
Select
              Administration > Settings.
Click the Network category.
Configure proxy properties.
Enter a Reason for
            change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.


Configuring the Host Parcel Directory
importantIf you modify the
          parcel directory location, make sure that all hosts use the same
          location. Using different locations on different hosts can cause
          unexpected problems.
To configure the location of distributed parcels:
Click Hosts in the top navigation bar.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select
                  Category > Parcels.
Configure the value of the Parcel Directory property. The setting of the
                parcel_dir property in the Cloudera Manager agent configuration
              file overrides this setting.
Enter a Reason for
            change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.
Restart the Cloudera Manager Agent on all hosts.



Configuring Peer-to-Peer Distribution of Parcels
Cloudera Manager uses a peer-to-peer service to efficiently
          distribute parcels to cluster hosts. The service is enabled by default
          and is configured to run on port 7191. You can change
          this port number, and you can disable peer-to-peer distribution. 
To modify peer-to-peer distribution of parcels:
Open Cloudera Manager and select
                  Hosts > All
                  Hosts > Configuration.
Change the value of the P2P Parcel Distribution
                Port property to the new port number.Set the
                value to 0 to disable peer-to-peer distribution
                of parcels.

Enter a Reason for
            change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.



Configuring user and group creation for Parcels
You can configure how the Cloudera Manager agent manages permissions
        when reading Parcels. There are two configuration parameters available
        and both are enabled by default.
Create Users and Groups for Parcels.
              This parameter determines whether Cloudera Manager creates
              users and groups for Parcels. This may not be desired if custom
              users and groups are being used, or if they are created
              externally.
Apply Permissions with respect to files installed by
              the parcelsThis parameter determines whether
              Cloudera Manager applies permissions for files installed by the
              parcels.

If you are using custom users and groups, or using LDAP-based users and
        groups, de-select the Create Users and Groups for
          Parcels parameter and select the Apply
          Permissions with respect to files installed by the parcels
        parameter. 

notePrior to Cloudera Manager version 7.7.1, there was only a single
          parameter, Create Users and Groups, and Apply File
            Permissions for Parcels. 



Parent topic: Overview of Parcels