Overview of ParcelsCloudera Docs
Overview of Parcels

Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
A parcel is a binary distribution format
      containing the program files, along with additional metadata used by
      Cloudera Manager. The important differences between parcels and packages
        are:
Parcels are self-contained and installed in a versioned directory, which means that
          multiple versions of a given parcel can be installed side-by-side. You can then designate
          one of these installed versions as the active one. With packages, only one package can be
          installed at a time so there is no distinction between what is installed and what is
          active.
Parcels are required for rolling upgrades.
You can install parcels at any location in the filesystem. They are installed by default
          in /opt/cloudera/parcels. In contrast, packages are installed in
            /usr/lib.
When you install from the Parcels page,
          Cloudera Manager automatically downloads, distributes, and activates
          the correct parcel for the operating system running on each host in
          the cluster. All hosts that make up a logical cluster must run on the
          same major OS release to be covered by Cloudera Support. Cloudera
          Manager must run on the same major OS release as at least one of the
          clusters it manages, to be covered by Cloudera Support. The risk of
          issues caused by running different minor OS releases is considered
          lower than the risk of running different major OS releases. Cloudera
          recommends running the same minor release cross-cluster, because it
          simplifies issue tracking and supportability. 

importantCloudera Manager manages parcels without the need for
      users to manipulate parcels in the filesystem. You might cause failures or
      unexpected behaviors in your cluster if you perform any of the following
      unsupported actions:
Installing parcels within custom RPM packages and saving them to the
          Cloudera Manager parcel directory.
Downloading parcels and manually placing them in the Cloudera
          Manager parcel directory.
Manually adding, modifying, or deleting files within the root
          parcels directory or its subdirectories.


Parcels are available for CDH, Cloudera Runtime and for other managed
      services.

Advantages of ParcelsParcel Life CycleParcel LocationsManaging ParcelsProcedures for managing Parcels. Viewing Parcel UsageParcel Configuration SettingsParent topic: Managing Cloudera Manager