Rolling RestartCloudera Docs
Rolling Restart

Minimum Required Role:
Operator
        (also provided by Configurator,
          Cluster Administrator, Limited
          Cluster Administrator , Full
          Administrator) 
Rolling restart allows you to conditionally restart the role instances of
      the following services to update software or use a new configuration:
Atlas
HBase
HDFS
Hive-on-Tezx
Kafka
Key Trustee Server
Knox
Kudu – see Orchestrating a rolling restart with
            no downtime.
MapReduce
Oozie
Ranger KMS
Schema Registry
Streams Replication Manager
YARN
ZooKeeper 

If the service is not running, rolling restart is not available for that service. You can
      specify a rolling restart of each service individually.
If you have HDFS High Availability enabled,
      you can also perform a cluster-level rolling restart. At the cluster
      level, the rolling restart of worker hosts is performed on a host-by-host
      basis, rather than per service, to avoid all roles for a service
      potentially being unavailable at the same time. During a cluster restart,
      to avoid having your NameNode (and thus the cluster) be unavailable during
      the restart, Cloudera Manager forces a failover to the standby
      NameNode.
Job Tracker and Resource Manager High availability are not
      required for a cluster-level rolling restart. However, if you have
      JobTracker or ResourceManager high availability enabled, Cloudera Manager
      will force a failover to the standby JobTracker or ResourceManager.
importantIf you have changed a
        configuration property that requires a redeployment of the client
        configurations, note that refreshing or restarting a cluster does not
        automatically re-deploy the client configurations. A service or cluster
        displays a staleness icon () next to the cluster or service name that
        indicates that you must redeploy the client configuration. Click the
        icon to open the Stale
            Configurations page and follow the prompts to
        refresh the cluster and redeploy the client
          configuration.Alternatively, after a restart is completed, you can
          select Deploy Client Configuration from the
            Actions menu for either a service or cluster.
        

Performing a Service or Role Rolling Restart
You can initiate a rolling restart from either the Status page for one of the eligible
        services, or from the service's Instances page, where you can select individual roles to be
        restarted.

Go to the service you want to restart.
Do one of the following:
service - Select
                  Actions > Rolling
                Restart.
role - 
Click the Instances tab.
Select the roles to restart.
Select Actions for
                      Selected > Rolling Restart.


In the pop-up dialog box, select the options you want:
Restart only roles whose configurations are stale
Restart only roles that are running outdated software versions
Which role types to restart

If you select an HDFS, HBase, MapReduce, or YARN service, you can have their worker
          roles restarted in batches. You can configure:
How many roles should be included in a batch - Cloudera Manager restarts the worker
              roles rack-by-rack in alphabetical order, and within each rack, hosts are restarted in
              alphabetical order. If you are using the default replication factor of 3, Hadoop tries
              to keep the replicas on at least 2 different racks. So if you have multiple racks, you
              can use a higher batch size than the default 1. But you should be aware that using too
              high batch size also means that fewer worker roles are active at any time during the
              upgrade, so it can cause temporary performance degradation. If you are using a single
              rack only, you should only restart one worker node at a time to ensure data
              availability during upgrade.
How long should Cloudera Manager wait before starting the next batch.
The number of batch failures that will cause the entire rolling restart to
              fail (this is an advanced feature). For example if you have a very large cluster you
              can use this option to allow failures because if you know that your cluster will be
              functional even if some worker roles are down.
note

HDFS - If you do not have HDFS high availability configured, a warning
                appears reminding you that the service will become unavailable during the restart
                while the NameNode is restarted. Services that depend on that HDFS service will also
                be disrupted. Cloudera recommends that you restart the DataNodes one at a time—one
                host per batch, which is the default.
HBase

Administration operations such as any of the following should not be performed
                    during the rolling restart, to avoid leaving the cluster in an inconsistent
                      state:
Split
Create, disable, enable, or drop table
Metadata changes
Create, clone, or restore a snapshot. Snapshots rely on the RegionServers
                        being up; otherwise the snapshot will fail.


To increase the speed of a rolling restart of the HBase
                      service, set the Region Mover Threads property to a
                      higher value. This increases the number of regions that can be moved in
                      parallel, but places additional strain on the HMaster. In most cases,
                        Region Mover Threads should be set to 5 or lower.

Another option to increase the speed of a rolling restart of the HBase service
                    is to set the Skip Region Reload During Rolling Restart
                    property to true. This setting can cause regions to be moved
                    around multiple times, which can degrade HBase client performance.

MapReduce - If you restart the JobTracker, all current jobs will fail.
YARN - If you restart ResourceManager and ResourceManager HA is enabled,
                current jobs continue running: they do not restart or fail. 
ZooKeeper and Flume - For both ZooKeeper and Flume, the option to
                restart roles in batches is not available. They are always restarted one by
                one.


Click Confirm to start the rolling restart.


Performing a Cluster-Level Rolling Restart
You can perform a cluster-level rolling restart on demand from the Cloudera Manager Admin
        Console. A cluster-level rolling restart is also performed as the last step in a rolling
        upgrade when the cluster is configured with HDFS high availability enabled.

If you have not already done so, enable high availability. See HDFS High Availability for
          instructions. You do not need to enable automatic failover for rolling
          restart to work, though you can enable it if you want. Automatic
          failover does not affect the rolling restart operation.
For the cluster you want to restart select
              Actions > Rolling
            Restart.
In the pop-up dialog box, select the services you want to restart. Please review the
          caveats in the preceding section for the services you elect to have restarted. The
          services that do not support rolling restart will simply be restarted, and will be
          unavailable during their restart.
If you select an HDFS, HBase, or MapReduce service, you can have their worker roles
          restarted in batches. You can configure:
How many roles should be included in a batch - Cloudera Manager restarts the worker
              roles rack-by-rack in alphabetical order, and within each rack, hosts are restarted in
              alphabetical order. If you are using the default replication factor of 3, Hadoop tries
              to keep the replicas on at least 2 different racks. So if you have multiple racks, you
              can use a higher batch size than the default 1. But you should be aware that using too
              high batch size also means that fewer worker roles are active at any time during the
              upgrade, so it can cause temporary performance degradation. If you are using a single
              rack only, you should only restart one worker node at a time to ensure data
              availability during upgrade.
How long should Cloudera Manager wait before starting the next batch.
The number of batch failures that will cause the entire rolling restart to
              fail (this is an advanced feature). For example if you have a very large cluster you
              can use this option to allow failures because if you know that your cluster will be
              functional even if some worker roles are down.

Click Restart to start the rolling restart. While the restart is in progress, the
          Command Details page shows the steps for stopping and restarting the services.



Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Runtime Services