Enabling Resource Management with Control GroupsCloudera Docs
Enabling Resource Management with Control Groups
Enabling Linux Control Groups (cgroups) using Cloudera Manager. 
You can configure Cloudera Manager to use
      Linux Control Groups (cgroups) to manage cluster resources. After enabling
      cgroups for Resource management, you use Service configuration properties
      to allocate resources by CPU shares, I/O, and memory. 
Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.Cgroups-based
      resource management can be enabled for all hosts, or on a per-host
      basis.
Click  Hosts > 
              Host Configuration.Click
              Category > Resource
              Management.Select the Enable Cgroup-based Resource
            Management parameter.To enable Cgroups only on specific hosts:
Click the Add Host Overrides
              link.The Add Host
                Overrides page displays.
Select the hosts where you want to enable
            Cgroups.
Click the Add
              button.The Host
                Configuration page displays.
De-select the All Hosts option in
              the Enable Cgroup-based Resource Management
              configuration. 
Click Save
            Changes.
Restart all roles on the host(s).To configure the default Cloudera Manager resource parameters,
          see Configuring Resource Parameters. If you are
          using Custom Cgroups to allocate resources, you configure those
          resource parameters in the Linux environment.
Limitations

Role group and role instance override cgroup-based resource
            management parameters must be saved one at a time. Otherwise some of
            the changes that should be reflected dynamically will be
            ignored.
The role group abstraction is an imperfect fit for resource
            management parameters, where the goal is often to take a numeric
            value for a host resource and distribute it amongst running roles.
            The role group represents a "horizontal" slice: the same role across
            a set of hosts. However, the cluster is often viewed in terms of
            "vertical" slices, each being a combination of worker roles (such as
            TaskTracker, DataNode, RegionServer, Impala Daemon, and so on).
            Nothing in Cloudera Manager guarantees that these disparate
            horizontal slices are "aligned" (meaning, that the role assignment
            is identical across hosts). If they are unaligned, some of the role
            group values will be incorrect on unaligned hosts. For example a
            host whose role groups have been configured with memory limits but
            that's missing a role will probably have unassigned memory.



Parent topic: Linux Control Groups (cgroups)