Adding a Role InstanceCloudera Docs
Adding a Role Instance


Minimum Required Role:
Limited Cluster
            Administrator  (also provided by Full
          Administrator and Cluster
          Administrator)
After creating services, you can add role instances to the services. For example, after
        initial installation in which you created the HDFS service, you can add a DataNode role
        instance to a host where one was not previously running. Upon upgrading a cluster to a new
        version of Cloudera Runtime you might want to create a role instance for a role added in the
        new version. 

Go to the service for which you want to add a role instance.
          For example, to add a DataNode role instance, go to the HDFS
          service.Click the Instances tab.Click the Add Role Instances button.Customize the assignment of role
          instances to hosts. The wizard evaluates the hardware configurations
          of the hosts to determine the best hosts for each role. The wizard
          assigns all worker roles to the same set of hosts to which the HDFS
          DataNode role is assigned. You can reassign role instances.
Click a field below a role to display a dialog box containing a
            list of hosts. If you click a field containing multiple hosts, you
            can also select All Hosts to assign the role to all hosts, or
              Custom to display the hosts dialog box.
The following shortcuts for specifying hostname
            patterns are supported:
Range of hostnames (without the domain portion)

Range Definition
Matching Hosts



10.1.1.[1-4]
10.1.1.1, 10.1.1.2, 10.1.1.3, 10.1.1.4


host[1-3].company.com
host1.company.com, host2.company.com,
                          host3.company.com


host[07-10].company.com
host07.company.com, host08.company.com,
                          host09.company.com, host10.company.com


IP addresses
Rack name

Click the View By Host button for an overview of the role
            assignment by hostname ranges.
Click
        Continue.In the Review Changes page, review the configuration changes to
          be applied. Confirm the settings entered for file system
          paths. The file paths required vary based on the services to be
          installed. For example, you might confirm the NameNode Data Directory
          and the DataNode Data Directory for HDFS. Click Continue. 
The wizard finishes by performing any actions necessary to prepare the cluster for
      the new role instances. For example, new DataNodes are added to the NameNode
        dfs_hosts_allow.txt file. The new role instance is configured with the
      default role group for its role type, even if there are multiple role groups for the role
      type. If you want to use a different role group, follow the instructions in the topic
        Managing Role Groups for moving role instances to a different role
      group

Related informationManaging Role GroupsParent topic: Role Instances