Securing sensitive information using a Secure Credential Storage Provider (Technical Preview)Cloudera Docs
Securing sensitive information using a Secure Credential Storage
    Provider (Technical Preview)
You can configure Cloudera Manager to encrypt sensitive information
    stored in the Cloudera Manager database by configuring a Credential Storage
    Provider (CSP).
importantThis feature is in technical preview and should not
      be used in a production environment.
Cloudera Manager stores a variety of sensitive information required for
      normal operations. This sensitive information is stored in plain text,
      either in the Cloudera Manager database or on disk.
You can configure Cloudera Manager to encrypt these sensitive values by
      configuring a Secure Credential Store that stores an encryption key to
      encrypt and decrypt sensitive information that are then stored in
      encrypted form only in the Cloudera Manager database. The following types
      of sensitive information can be encrypted: 
Configuration parameters containing usernames and passwords (except
          for those needed for Cloudera Manager to access the CSP). 
Kerberos keytabs

You can choose from the following types of Secure Credential Store:
None – Sensitive information is not encrypted in the Cloudera
          Manager database. 
Vault – You can install and configure an external Vault, located on
          a different host, if desired. Cloudera recommends Vault from
          Hashicorp.
Embedded – The credentials are stored on disk, on the Cloudera
          Manager server host that is protected by file permissions. This type
          is less secure than using a Vault, but is easier to set up and
          manage.

Known Limitations 
There are currently the following limitations:
Sensitive information that was written to the database before the
            CSP is enabled will not be encrypted automatically. If you change
            any sensitive information, it will be encrypted.You can
              regenerate Kerberos credentials, which will then be encrypted. To
              regenerate the credentials, go to
                  Administration
                   > Security > Kerberos.
Auto-TLS keys are not encrypted.
No rotation of encryption keys.
The CSP Keystore Password, CSP Truststore Password and CM
            Truststore Password are not encrypted, as they are needed to connect
            to the CSP.
After you set the CSP type using the Cloudera Manager
            Admin Console, you cannot change the Storage Provider type to
            another type or to None. To change the type,
            you must first disable the CSP and then configure a new type using
            the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. See Disabling or changing the Credential Storage Provider (Technical Preview).
The Cloudera Manager High Availability configuration is
            currently not supported with the Cloudera Manager Secure Credential
            Provider. 



Configuring a Secure Credential Storage Provider for Cloudera Manager (Technical Preview)Steps to configure Cloudera Manager to encrypt sensitive     information stored in the Cloudera Manager database by configuring a     Credential Storage Provider (CSP).Disabling or changing the Credential Storage Provider (Technical Preview)Follow the steps in this topic to disable the Credential Storage     Provider (CSP) or change its type. 