Shutting Down and Starting Up the ClusterCloudera Docs
Shutting Down and Starting Up the Cluster
To pause an AWS cluster, follow the shutdown procedure. To restart the cluster after a
    pause, follow the startup procedure.
Minimum Required Role:
Operator
        (also provided by Configurator,
          Cluster Administrator, Limited
          Cluster Administrator , Full
          Administrator) 

In the shutdown and startup procedures below, some steps are performed in the AWS console
        and some are performed in Cloudera Manager:
For AWS actions, use one of the following interfaces:
AWS console
AWS CLI
AWS API

For cluster actions, use one of the following interfaces:
The Cloudera Manager web UI
The Cloudera API start and stop
                commands




Shutdown procedure
To pause the cluster, complete the following steps:
Navigate to the Cloudera Manager web UI.
Stop the cluster.
On the
                    Home > Status
                tab, click  to the right of the cluster name and
                select Stop.
Click Stop in the confirmation screen. The Command
                  Details window shows the progress of stopping services.When All services
                    successfully stopped appears, the task is complete and you can close the
                    Command Details window.

Stop the Cloudera Management Service.
On the
                    Home > Status
                tab, click  to the right of the service name and select
                Stop.
Click Stop in the next screen to confirm. When you see a
                  Finished status, the service has stopped.

In AWS, stop all cluster EC2 instances, including the Cloudera Manager host .


Startup procedure
To restart the cluster after a pause, the steps are reversed:
In AWS, start all cluster EC2 instances.
Navigate to the Cloudera Manager UI.
Start the Cloudera Management Service.
On the
                    Home > Status
                tab, click  to the right of the service name and select
                Start.
Click Start that appears in the next screen to confirm.
                When you see a Finished status, the service has started.

Start the cluster.
On the
                    Home > Status
                tab, click  to the right of the cluster name and
                select Start.
Click Start that appears in the next screen to confirm.
                The Command Details window shows the progress of starting services.When
                    All services successfully started appears, the task is complete and you
                  can close the Command Details window.



Considerations after Restart
Since the cluster was completely stopped before stopping the EC2 instances, the cluster
        should be healthy upon restart and ready for use. You should be aware of the following about
        the restarted cluster:
After starting the EC2 instances, Cloudera Manager and its agents will be running but
            the cluster will be stopped. There will be gaps in Cloudera Manager’s time-based metrics
            and charts.
EC2 instances retain their internal IP address and hostname for their lifetime, so no
            reconfiguration of CDH or Runtime is required after restart. The public IP and DNS
            hostnames, however, will be different. Elastic IPs can be configured to remain
            associated with a stopped instance at additional cost, but it isn’t necessary to
            maintain proper cluster operation.



Parent topic: Pausing a Cluster in AWS