Specifying Racks for HostsCloudera Docs
Specifying Racks for Hosts
To get maximum performance, it is important to configure Cloudera
    Manager so that it knows the topology of your network. Network locations
    such as hosts and racks are represented in a tree, which reflects the
    network “distance” between locations. HDFS will use the network location to
    place block replicas more intelligently to trade off performance and
    resilience.

Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
When placing jobs on hosts, CDP prefers within-rack transfers (where
        there is more bandwidth available) to off-rack transfers; the MapReduce
        and YARN schedulers use network location to determine where the closest
        replica is as input to a map task. These computations are performed with
        the assistance of rack awareness scripts.
Cloudera Manager includes internal rack awareness scripts, but you must specify the racks
        where the hosts in your cluster are located. If your cluster contains more than 10 hosts,
        Cloudera recommends that you specify the rack for each host. HDFS, MapReduce, and YARN will
        automatically use the racks you specify.
Cloudera Manager supports nested rack specifications. For example, you could specify the
        rack /rack3, or /group5/rack3 to indicate the third rack
        in the fifth group. All hosts in a cluster must have the same number of path
        components in their rack specifications.
Click Hosts > All
              Hosts.Select the hosts that you want to assign to a
        rack.Click Actions for
              Selected > Assign
            Rack.Enter a rack name or ID that starts with a slash
            /, such as /rack123 or
            /aisle1/rack123.Click Confirm.Optionally, restart any affected services. Rack assignments are
          not automatically updated for running services.
Parent topic: Managing Hosts