Step 4: Specify HostsCloudera Docs
Step 4: Specify Hosts
Cloudera Manager can automatically discover hosts on which to install Cloudera
    Runtime and managed services. This section covers the procedure for new hosts only. 

Choose which hosts will run Cloudera Runtime and other managed services.


To enable Cloudera Manager to automatically discover hosts on which to install CDH and
          managed services, enter the cluster hostnames or IP addresses in the
            Hostnames field. You can specify hostname and IP address ranges
          as follows:


Expansion Range
Matching Hosts



10.1.1.[1-4]
10.1.1.1, 10.1.1.2, 10.1.1.3, 10.1.1.4


host[1-3].example.com
host1.example.com, host2.example.com, host3.example.com


host[07-10].example.com
host07.example.com, host08.example.com, host09.example.com,
                    host10.example.com


importantUnqualified hostnames (short names) must be unique in a Cloudera
            Manager instance. For example, you cannot have both
              host01.example.com and
              host01.standby.example.com managed by the same Cloudera Manager
            Server.
You can specify multiple addresses and address ranges by separating them with commas,
            semicolons, tabs, or blank spaces, or by placing them on separate lines. Use this
            technique to make more specific searches instead of searching overly wide ranges. Only
            scans that reach hosts running SSH will be selected for inclusion in your cluster by
            default. You can enter an address range that spans over unused addresses and then clear
            the nonexistent hosts later in the procedure, but wider ranges require more time to
            scan.

Click Search. If there are a large number of hosts on your
          cluster, wait a few moments to allow them to be discovered and shown in the wizard. If the
          search is taking too long, you can stop the scan by clicking Abort Scan. You can
          modify the search pattern and repeat the search as many times as you need until you see
          all of the expected hosts.
noteCloudera Manager scans hosts by checking for network connectivity. If there are some
            hosts where you want to install services that are not shown in the list, make sure you
            have network connectivity between the Cloudera Manager Server host and those hosts, and
            that firewalls and SE Linux are not blocking access.
Verify that the number of hosts shown matches the number of hosts where you want to
          install services. Clear host entries that do not exist or where you do not want to install
          services.Click Continue.The Select
            Repository screen displays.

Parent topic: Adding a Cluster Using New Hosts