Step 5: Select RepositoryCloudera Docs
Step 5: Select Repository
The Select Repository page allows you to specify repositories
    for Cloudera Manager Agent and CDH and other
      software. If you are installing on currently managed hosts, the
      Cloudera Manager Agent section is not displayed.

importantYou cannot install software using both parcels and
        packages in the same cluster. 


In the Cloudera Manager Agent section, select either
            Public Cloudera Repository or Custom
            Repository for the Cloudera Manager Agent software. If you select
            Custom Repository, do not include the operating system-specific
          paths in the URL. For instructions on setting up a custom repository, see
            Configuring a Local Package Repository.
In the CDH and other software section, select the repository
          type to use for the installation. In the Install Method section
          select one of the following:
Use Parcels (Recommended)A parcel is a binary distribution format
              containing the program files, along with additional metadata used by Cloudera Manager.
              Parcels are required for rolling upgrades. For more information, see Overview of Parcels.
Use PackagesA package is a standard binary distribution format that
              contains compiled code and meta-information such as a package description, version,
              and dependencies. Packages are installed using your operating system package
              manager.

If you select Use Packages, make sure that you have manually
            installed the CDH packages on each host before continuing.
Select the version of CDH or Runtime to install. For compute clusters using
          parcels, the supported versions display (Supported) next to the
          parcel name. For compute clusters using packages, you must make sure that you have
          installed a supported CDH or Runtime version on all compute cluster hosts.
If you selected Use Parcels and you do not see the version you
            want to install, click the More Options button to add the
            repository URL for your version. Repository URLs for CDH version 6 and Cloudera Runtime
            are documented in the Release Guide. After adding the repository, click Save
              Changes and wait a few seconds for the version to appear. If your Cloudera
            Manager host uses an HTTP proxy, click the Proxy Settings button
            to configure your proxy.
noteCloudera Manager only displays CDH versions it can support. If an available CDH
            version is too new for your Cloudera Manager version, it is not displayed.
If you selected Use Parcels, specify any
            Additional Parcels you want to install. If you are installing CDH
          6, do not select the KAFKA, KUDU, or
            SPARK parcels, because they are included in CDH 6.Click Continue.If you are using parcels,
          the Install Parcels page displays. If you chose to install using
          packages, the Detecting CDH Versions page
        displays.

Parent topic: Adding a Cluster Using Currently Managed Hosts