Viewing Host StatusCloudera Docs
Viewing Host Status
You can view summary information about the hosts managed by Cloudera Manager. You can
    view information for all hosts, the hosts in a cluster, or individual hosts.
Viewing All Hosts
To display summary information about all the hosts managed by
        Cloudera Manager, click Hosts > All Hosts in the left menu.
        The All Hosts page displays with a list of all the hosts managed by
        Cloudera Manager.
The list of hosts shows the overall status of the Cloudera
          Manager-managed hosts in your cluster. 
The information provided varies depending on which columns are
              selected. To change the columns, click the Columns:
                  n Selected drop-down and select
              the checkboxes next to the columns to display.
Click  to the left of the number of roles to
              list all the role instances running on that host. 

Filter the hosts list by entering search
              terms (hostname, IP address, or role) in the search box separated
              by commas or spaces. Use quotes for exact matches (for example,
              strings that contain spaces, such as a role name) and brackets to
              search for ranges. Hosts that match any of the search terms are
              displayed. For example:
              hostname[1-3], hostname8 hostname9, "hostname.example.com"
hostname.example.com “HDFS DataNode”


You can also search for hosts by
            selecting a value from the facets in the Filters section at
            the left of the page. Click the Filters
            toggle to show or hide the Filters
            section.
If the agent heartbeat and health status
            properties are configured as follows:
Send Agent heartbeat every x

Set health status to Concerning if the
                Agent heartbeats fail y

Set health status to Bad if the Agent
                heartbeats fail z

The value v for a host's Last Heartbeat facet is computed as
              follows:

v <
                  x * y
                = Good

v >=
                  x * y
                and <= x *
                  z = Concerning

v >=
                  x * z
                = Bad





Viewing the Hosts in a Cluster
Do one of the following:
Select Clusters > 
Cluster name
 > Hosts.
In the Home screen, click  in a full form cluster table.
The All Hosts page displays with a list of the hosts filtered by
        the cluster name.

Viewing Individual Hosts

You can view detailed information about an
          individual host—resources (CPU/memory/storage) used and available, which processes it is
          running, details about the host agent, and much more—by clicking a host link on the
            All Hosts page.


Related informationConfiguring Cloudera Manager AgentsParent topic: Managing Hosts