Cloudera Manager User RolesCloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager User Roles
 Access to Cloudera Manager features is controlled by user accounts
    that specify an authentication mechanism and one or more user
    rolesUser roles determine the tasks that an authenticated user can perform and the
      features visible to the user in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. In
      addition to the default user roles, you can create user roles that apply
      only to specific clusters. 
Documentation for Cloudera Manager administration and management tasks
      indicate user roles required to perform the task. 
noteAll possible user roles are available with Cloudera Enterprise.
      Cloudera Express provides Read-Only and Full Administrator user roles
      only. When a Cloudera Enterprise Data Hub Edition trial license expires,
      only users with Read-Only and Full Administrator roles can log in to
      Cloudera Manager. A Full Administrator must change user accounts with
      other roles to Read-Only or Full Administrator before such users can log
      in.


Parent topic: Managing Cloudera Manager
Displaying Your Roles

To view your roles, perform the following step: 

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, select
              <username> > My
              Profile.




Default User Roles

By default, Cloudera Manager ships with user roles that have privileges
        for all clusters managed by Cloudera Manager. You can create roles that
        are a combination of a default user role and privileges on a specific
        cluster. For more information about this type of role, see User Roles with Privileges for a Cluster. 
The following table describes the actions each user role can
          perform:



User Roles with Privileges for a Cluster

In addition to the default user roles, you can create user roles that
        apply only to specific clusters. Creating this new role is done by
        assigning a privilege for a specific cluster to a default role. When a
        user account has multiple roles, the privileges are the union of all the
        roles. 
For example, the user account milton has the Limited
        Operator role and Read-Only role with a scope of Cluster 1.
        Additionally, milton has the Configurator role on
        Cluster 2. 
On Cluster 1, milton can perform all the actions that
        a Limited Operator and Read-Only can.
On Cluster 2, milton can perform all the actions that
        a Configurator can.
The user account milton cannot perform these or any
        other actions on the other clusters that are managed by Cloudera Manager
        because the account does not have any other roles.
Another user account, edith, has the Configurator role
        with privileges for all clusters. This means that edith
        can perform the actions of the Configurator role on all clusters that
        Cloudera Manager manages since the scope is all clusters. 
You can assign privileges for a specific cluster to the following user
        roles:

Cluster Administrator
Configurator
Limited Operator
Operator
Read-Only

User roles that cannot be assigned privileges for a specific cluster
        apply to all clusters. For example, if edith has the
        Key Administrator user role, she can perform the actions of a Key
        Administrator on all clusters. 
Figure 1. Cluster-Specific
          Permissions



Adding a User Role for a Specific Cluster

To create a role that has privileges for a specific cluster, perform
        the following steps: 

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, navigate to
              Administration > Users
              &
          Roles > Roles.
Click Add Role.
Specify the following:
Privilege: The user role and cluster you
              want to assign privileges for.
Users: The users you want to assign to
              this new role. You can assign users now or at a later time.
LDAP Group/External Program Exit Codes/SAML
                Attributes/SAML Script Exit Codes: The external
              mapping you want to assign this new role to. You can assign
              external mappings now or at a later time with the process
              described in Mapping External Authentication to a Role.
                This field is based on your authentication mode and does not
                appear for local users. Valid values for the External
                Program Exit Code and SAML Script Exit Code are between 0 and
                127. You defined what users you want to associate with theses
                values when you configure your external authentication. For more
                information, If you are upgrading to Cloudera Manager 6
                from Cloudera Manager 5, existing mappings are imported from
                Cloudera Manager 5. These imported mappings can be
                changed.The following list describes the LDAP groups
                imported from Cloudera Manager 5: 

LDAP Full Administrator Groups
LDAP User Administrator Groups
LDAP Cluster Administrator Groups
LDAP Replication Administrator Groups
LDAP Configurator Groups
LDAP Key Administrator Groups
LDAP Navigator Administrator Groups
LDAP Operator Groups
LDAP Limited Operator Groups
LDAP Auditor Groups

The following list describes the SAML and External Program
                codes imported from Cloudera Manager 5: 

0 - Full Administrator
1 - Read-Only
2 - Limited Operator
3 - Operator
4 - Configurator
5 - Cluster Administrator
6 - Replication Administrator
7 - Navigator Administrator
8 - User Administrator
9 - Auditor
10 - Key Administrator
11 - Dashboard User




Click Add.




Mapping External Authentication to a Role

If you are using an external authentication, such as a SAML Script, you
        must map its information to Cloudera Manager user roles. Before you can
        map a role though, make sure that it exists. If it does not exist,
        create it by completing the steps described in Adding a User Role for a Specific Cluster. noteIf
          you do not map an External Authentication entity (such as an LDAP
          group) to a role, users that belong to that group will default to no
          access. 
For example, you are using a SAML Script and want to assign user
        accounts that correspond with exit code 15 to a Cluster Administrator
        role with privileges for a cluster named cluster1. 
To accomplish this, perform the following steps in the Cloudera Manager
        Admin Console:

Navigate to
              Administration > Users
              &
          Roles > Roles.
Based on your authentication method, select LDAP
            Groups, SAML Attributes,
            SAML Scripts, or External
            Programs.
 Click Add <authentication method>
          Mapping.
Fill in the value for your authentication method, such as SAML
          Script Exit Code, and select the role you want to map to that value
          from the dropdown menu.For SAML Scripts and External Programs,
            valid values are between 0 and 127.
Click Save.
Repeat this process for all the roles you want to map.

If you are upgrading to Cloudera Manager 6 from Cloudera Manager 5,
        existing mappings are imported from Cloudera Manager 5. These imported
        mappings can be changed.
The following list describes the LDAP groups imported from Cloudera
        Manager 5: 


LDAP Full Administrator Groups
LDAP User Administrator Groups
LDAP Cluster Administrator Groups
LDAP Replication Administrator Groups
LDAP Configurator Groups
LDAP Key Administrator Groups
LDAP Navigator Administrator Groups
LDAP Operator Groups
LDAP Limited Operator Groups
LDAP Auditor Groups


The following list describes the SAML and External Program codes
        imported from Cloudera Manager 5: 


0 - Full Administrator
1 - Read-Only
2 - Limited Operator
3 - Operator
4 - Configurator
5 - Cluster Administrator
6 - Replication Administrator
7 - Navigator Administrator
8 - User Administrator
9 - Auditor
10 - Key Administrator
11 - Dashboard User





Assigning Users to a Role

In addition to mapping groups, such as LDAP groups, to a user role, you
        can also assign individual users to a user role. If you do not assign a
        role, the local user defaults to no access. This means that the user
        cannot perform any actions on the cluster.
To add a user account to a role, perform the following steps:

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, navigate to
              Administration > Users
              &
          Roles > Roles.
Click Assign for the role you want to modify. 
Specify the Users or
            <Authentication Method Value> groups you
          want to assign to the role.
Save the changes.




Removing a User or External Mapping from a User Role

Perform the following steps to remove a user account or external
        mapping from a user role:

In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, navigate to
              Administration > Users
              &
          Roles > Roles.
Click Assign for the role you want to modify. 
Click the X for each user or external mapping
          you want to remove from the user role and click
            Save.




Removing a Role

To remove a role with a specific privilege, you must first remove all
        the user accounts that have that role. Note that you cannot remove the
        default roles that Cloudera Manager ships with.
The following steps describe how to remove users and then delete the role:
In the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, navigate to
                Administration > Users
                &
              Roles > Roles.
Click Assign for the role you want to
            modify. 
Click the X for each user or external
            mapping you want to remove from the user role and click
              Save.
Click Remove.




Removing the Full Administrator User Role

Minimum Required Role:
User
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
In some organizations, security policies may prohibit the use of the
        Full Administrator role. The Full Administrator role is created during
        Cloudera Manager installation, but you can remove it as long as you have
        at least one remaining user account with User Administrator
        privileges.
To remove the Full Administrator user role, perform the following
        steps.

Add at least one user account with User Administrator privileges, or
          ensure that at least one such user account already exists.
Ensure that there is only a single user account with Full
          Administrator privileges.
While logged in as the single remaining Full Administrator user,
          select your own user account and either delete it or assign it a new
          user role.

warningAfter you delete the last Full Administrator account,
        you will be logged out immediately and will not be able to log in unless
        you have access to another user account. Also, it will no longer be
        possible to create or assign Full Administrators.
A consequence of removing the Full Administrator role is that some
        tasks may require collaboration between two or more users with different
        user roles. For example:
If the machine that the Cloudera Navigator roles are running on
            needs to be replaced, the Cluster Administrator will want to move
            all the roles running on that machine to a different machine. The
            Cluster Administrator can move any non-Navigator roles by deleting
            and re-adding them, but would need a Navigator Administrator to
            perform the stop, delete, add, and start actions for the Cloudera
            Navigator roles.
In order to take HDFS snapshots, snapshots must be enabled on the cluster by a Cluster
            Administrator, but the snapshots themselves must be taken by a Replication
            Administrator.



