Step 5: Select RepositoryCloudera Docs
Step 5: Select Repository
The Select Repository page allows you to specify repositories
    for Cloudera Manager Agent and CDH and other
      software.

In the Cloudera Manager Agent section, select either
            Public Cloudera Repository or Custom
            Repository for the Cloudera Manager Agent software.If you select Custom Repository, do not include the
          operating system-specific paths in the URL. For instructions on setting up a custom
          repository, see Configuring a Local Package Repository.In the CDH and other software section, select the repository
          type to use for the installation. In the Install Method section
          select one of the following:
Use Parcels (Recommended)A parcel is a binary distribution format
              containing the program files, along with additional metadata used by Cloudera Manager.
              Parcels are required for rolling upgrades.
Use PackagesA package is a standard binary distribution format that
              contains compiled code and meta-information such as a package description, version,
              and dependencies. Packages are installed using your operating system package
              manager.
Select the version of Cloudera Runtime to install. For compute clusters using
          parcels, the supported Cloudera Runtime versions display
            (Supported) next to the parcel name. For compute clusters using
          packages, you must make sure that you have installed a supported Cloudera Runtime version
          on all compute cluster hosts.
If you selected Use Parcels and you do not see the
              version you want to install, click the More Options button to
              add the repository URL for your version. Repository URLs for Cloudera Runtime 7.x are
              documented in the Release Guide. After adding the repository, click Save
                Changes and wait a few seconds for the version to appear. If your
              Cloudera Manager host uses an HTTP proxy, click the Proxy
                Settings button to configure your proxy.
noteCloudera Manager only displays Cloudera Runtime versions it can support. If an
                available Cloudera Runtime version is too new for your Cloudera Manager version, it
                is not displayed.

If you selected Use Packages, and the version you
              want to install is not listed, you can select Custom Repository
              to specify a repository that contains the desired version. Repository URLs for
              Cloudera Runtime 7.x are documented in the Release Guide.
If you selected Use Parcels, specify any
            Additional Parcels you want to install. Click Continue.
The Accept JDK License page displays.


Parent topic: Adding a Cluster Using New Hosts