Configuring Upgrade DomainsCloudera Docs
Configuring Upgrade Domains
Upgrade Domains allow to group cluster hosts for optimal performance
    during restarts and upgrades.
Upgrade Domains enable faster cluster restarts,
      faster Cloudera Runtime upgrades, and seamless OS patching & hardware
      upgrades across large clusters. Upgrade Domains provide an alternative to
      the default HDFS block placement policy, distributing data across a set of
      hosts (potentially larger than a single rack) that Cloudera Manager can
      upgrade/restart at once without compromising service and data
      availability. When you select Upgrade Domains as the block placement
      policy, you also assign an Upgrade Domain group to each DataNode host. The
      NameNode uses these groups to distribute blocks when writing data, and to
      orchestrate rolling restarts and upgrades. This feature is useful for very
      large clusters, or for clusters where rolling restarts happen
      frequently.
For example, if HDFS is configured with the default replication
      factor of 3, the NameNode places the replica blocks on DataNode hosts in 3
      different Upgrade Domains and on at least two different racks. 
note



Cloudera recommends that you assign an approximately
              equal number of DataNode hosts to each Upgrade Domain.


The number of Upgrade Domains in a cluster should be
              greater than or equal to the HDFS Replication Factor. When you
              perform a rolling restart on a cluster, all hosts in an Upgrade
              Domain group will be restarted simultaneously, followed by the
              hosts in each remaining Upgrade Domain group. 


You should create a sufficient number of Upgrade
              Domains so that the cluster can still function adequately when all
              the hosts in a single Upgrade Domain are taken offline. The
              appropriate number of Upgrade Domains depends on the workloads and
              capacity of the cluster and may require tuning for optimal
              performance. 


To take advantage of the improved rolling restart
              performance, Upgrade Domain groups should not duplicate rack
              assignments. The number of hosts in an Upgrade Domain group should
              be larger than the number of hosts in a rack. 





Configuring Upgrade DomainsSteps to configure Upgrade Domains.Changing the Upgrade Domain for hostsSteps to add or change the Upgrade Domain for cluster     hosts.Putting all Hosts in an Upgrade Domain group into Maintenance ModeSteps to put hosts in an Upgrade Domain into Maintenance Mode. Parent topic: Managing Hosts