Viewing Parcel UsageCloudera Docs
Viewing Parcel Usage

The Parcel Usage page shows parcels in current use in your
        clusters. In a large deployment, this makes it easier to keep track of
        different versions installed across the cluster, especially if some
        hosts were not available when you performed an installation or upgrade,
        or were added later. To display the Parcel Usage page:
Do one of the following:
Click the parcel icon in the top navigation bar.
Click Hosts in the top navigation bar and click the
                  Parcels tab.


Click the Parcel Usage button.


This page only shows the usage of parcels, not components
        that were installed as packages. If you select a cluster running
        packages, the cluster is not displayed, and instead you see a message
        indicating the cluster is not running parcels. 



You can view parcel usage by cluster or by product.
You can also
        view just the hosts running only the active parcels, or just hosts
        running older parcels (not the currently active parcels), or
        both.
The host map at the right shows each host in the cluster,
        with the status of the parcels on that host. If the host is running the
        processes from the currently activated parcels, the host is indicated in
        blue. A black square indicates that a parcel has been activated, but
        that all the running processes are from an earlier version of the
        software. This occurs, for example, if you have not restarted a service
        or role after activating a new parcel. If you have individual hosts
        running components installed as packages, the square is
        empty.
Move the cursor over the grid icon to see the rack to which the hosts are
        assigned. Hosts on different racks are displayed in separate rows.
To view the exact versions of the software running on a
        given host, click the square representing the host. This displays the
        parcel versions installed on that host.



The pop-up lists the roles running on the selected host that are part
        of the listed parcel. Clicking a role opens the Cloudera Manager page
        for that role. It also shows whether the parcel is active or not.
If a host is running various software versions, the square representing the
        host is a four-square grid icon. When you move the cursor over that
        host, both the active and inactive components are shown. For example, in
        the image below, the older CDH parcel has been deactivated, but only the
        HDFS service has been restarted.




Parent topic: Overview of Parcels