View HDFS directory structure of Compute clustersCloudera Docs
View HDFS directory structure of Compute clusters
Learn how to view the HDFS structure in a Base cluster from a
    Compute cluster.
In a Virtual Private Cluster environment, some Compute
      clusters have a local HDFS. But, crucial directories (JHS for spark,
      logging for yarn) for compute services are created in the Base cluster
      HDFS.
One of the design assumptions of Compute clusters is that they would be
        transient and so the user should still have a way to access important
        logs after the Compute clusters have been destroyed.

Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and
        view the HDFS hierarchy on the Base cluster HDFS service by opening the
        File Browser: Cluster 1 > HDFS-1 > File Browser.




All the logs pertaining to Compute clusters are
          under the “mc” directory.



This Base cluster has 2 Compute clusters
          associated with it, Compute 1 and Compute 2.
Each Compute cluster (based on its ID) gets a
          folder under this directory, so folder 2 belongs to Compute 1 and 3
          belongs to Compute 2. The ID of the cluster can be identified from the
          URL used to access the cluster. Click on Compute 1 in the CM Cluster
          view and inspect the URL.

http://quasar-wfrgnj-1.vpc.cloudera.com:7180/cmf/clusters/2/status

The ID is the segment following /clusters in the URL. This
          is also the subfolder name under the /mc folder.
This is the directory where all the logs for
          services in Compute 1 are stored.

Navigate to the file browser of a Compute
          cluster.




Note that folder 2 which is dedicated for the
          Compute 1 cluster is not visible to the Compute 2 cluster.
Navigating to folders below this hierarchy, you
          can see the folders created for services present on the Compute 2
          cluster.








Parent topic: Tutorial: Using Impala, Hive and Hue with Virtual Private Clusters