DendrogramsCloudera Docs
Dendrograms
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Dendrogram visuals. Dendrograms are good
    at expressing hierarchical relationships in data. As the name derivation suggests (Greek
    'dendro' for 'tree' and 'gramma' for 'drawing'), dendrograms are tree diagrams.

In the following example the NYC Taxi Data for year 2013 dataset is used. You can
        download a subset of this data for trips made within Staten Island boro, upload
        it, and create the dataset NYC Taxi Data. 
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for dendogram
          visuals.

Start a new visual based on dataset NYC Taxi Data.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, find and click
            Dendrogram. 


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Dimensions,
            Measure, Tooltips, X
            Trellis, Y Trellis and
          Filters. The mandatory shelves are: 
Dimensions: specify two dimensions, because there are at
              least two nodes on each branch
Measure; specify one measurement plotted on the branch
              between nodes




Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select Pickup
                Neighborhood and Dropoff Neighborhood, and add them to the
                Dimensions shelf.


Under Measures, select Record Count and add
              it to the Measure shelf.



To examine only the rides within Staten Island, add Pickup Boro and
            Dropoff Boro to the Filters shelf, and set them
          to a single value 'Staten Island'. 






Click REFRESH VISUAL. 
The new dendrogram visual appears.



Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'NYC Taxi - Dendrogram'. You can also add a
            brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
To adjust the dendrogram display, check all the available settings for this visual.
Shelves for dendrogramsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Dendogram visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog