ScatterCloudera DocsScatter
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Scatter visuals. Scatter charts (or
    scatter plots) have points that show the relationship between two sets of data. They are great
    for detecting groupings or patterns in a large set of data points. 
Scatter visuals have the following additional features in Data Visualization:
You can use color as a third 'dimension'. For more information, see Creating basic
            scatter visuals.
You can control the size of the marks that represent individual data points, as shown in
            Adding size to scatter visuals.
You can add a regular increment, such as time, to create an animated representation of
          data. For more information, see Adding transition animation to scatter
            visuals.
You can divide the data along natural categories to create side-by-side charts to see
          individual data points more clearly. For instructions, see Adding trellises to
            scatter visuals.
noteThis visual type supports smooth rendering of
        streaming data.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for scatter
        visuals.

Creating a basic scatter visualCDP Data Visualization enables you to create a basic Scatter visual.Adding size to scatter visualsIn Scatter visuals, you can control the size of the individual bubbles to show     variation of a measure more clearly.Adding transition animation to scatter visualsScatter visuals have a powerful feature called transition animation.Adding trellis to scattersIn Scatter visuals, you can add trellises for comparing and contrasting data. To     discover variation within the dataset, to see both similarities and differences among     categorical subsets of data, it is very useful to see visuals for these categories of data side     by side. In CDP Data Visualization, this is very easy to do with the trellis option, which is     essentially a doubling down on one or both of the axes.Shelves for scattersOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Scatter visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog