Country map with bubblesCloudera DocsCountry map with bubbles
CDP Data Visualization Map visuals can use bubbles to show relative measurement values
    for countries. You can display two measurements at the same time: the first measurement as the
    color of the bubble, and the second one as the relative size of the bubble.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new map visual on the dataset World Life
          Expectancy [data source samples.world_life_expectancy]. It produces
        bubbles with area that corresponds to the relative population in each country.

Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions,  see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Geo,
            Color, Size, Drill,
            Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for
          map visuals is Geo.



Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select country and add it
              to the Geo shelf.


Under Measures, select population and add
              it to the Color shelf.


Under Measures, select gdp_per_capita and
              add it to the Size shelf.


Under Measures, select year and add it to
              the  Filters shelf. When the Filter for
                year window modal appears, select 2010 in the
                Values tab, and click APPLY.







Change the map from choropleth to bubble marks, as described in Displaying bubbles on
          maps.Adjust the size range of the marks to 1-10, as described in Changing the mark size
          range.
Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The map visual graph appears.
Optional: 
On the Tooltips shelf, add several fields from
            Dimensions and Measures.
This enables you to see specific descriptive information in your visuals, such as
          input values, segment affiliation, and calculations. For example, from
              Dimensions, drag un_subregion,
              un_region, and year to the
              Tooltips shelf.
Optional: 
Alias the fields on the shelves to improve the readability of the visual and its
          tooltip.

population as Population
un_subregion as UN Subregion
un_region as UN Region
year as Year
For instructions, see Alias.
Optional: 
Format the number reported by the GDP per Capita field to include a thousands
          separator, and format Year not to use the thousands separator.
For more information, see Real number display format and Integer
            display format.
Optional: 
[Recommended] Enable panning and zooming option, as described in Customizing
            zoom.
Optional: 
Change the color palette to blue, as described in Change color palette
            visuals.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.

You can move the visual (pan), zoom in and out, and see the details in the Tooltips
            text.





Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'World Population - Map with Bubbles'. You can
            also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Parent topic: Maps