TableCloudera Docs
Table
A Table visual displays the fields of the underlying dataset. It may be sorted along
    any measure or dimension, and its cells can be formatted using format strings.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new table visual representation on the
          World Life Expectancy dataset. For an overview of shelves that specify this visual,
        see Shelves for tables.
tip
The default Table visual request selects only columns from the first table in a dataset
          with a join, up to the maximum number of columns specified in the Table
            Style menu.

To change the maximum number of columns, see Specifying maximum number of
              columns.
To show columns from other tables of the dataset, add them to the shelves of visual
            from the Dimensions and Measures of the
               DATA menu.




Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual. By default, the table shows all
          fields in the dataset. If your starting point is another visual type, find and click
            Table in the VISUALS menu.

The shelves of the Table visual are Dimensions,
              Measures, Tooltips,
              Filters, and Limit.There are no
            mandatory shelves. If you do not specify a value in any of the shelves, all columns
            appear in the visual.



 To show only specific items, populate the shelves from the fields available in the
            DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select 'country' and drag it to the
                Dimensions shelf.
Under Measures, select 'life_expectancy' and drag it to the
                Measures shelf.






 Change the aggregate of the 'life_expectancy' field from 'sum(life_expectancy)' to
          'avg(life_expectancy)'.


On the Measures shelf of
              the visual, click the caret-right icon to the right of the
              'sum(life_expectancy)' field.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, click the
                caret-right icon next to Aggregates to
              open a drop-down menu.
From the list of aggregate functions, select Average.


Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.

The shelf now contains the modified field with the avg() aggregation
            function.
Alternatively, you can change the aggregation at the level of the dataset, as described
            in Changing field aggregation.


 Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The updated Table visual appears.



tipIf no default display format is specified, comma separation will be
            applied. See, Customizing display format.

Optional: 
To improve the appearance of the visual, alias the 'country' field as 'Country' and the
          'life_expectancy' field as 'Life Expectancy'.


On the shelf of the visual, click the
                caret-right icon to the right of the field.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, click the
                caret-right icon next to Alias.
In the text box below Alias, enter the alias name of the
              column, as it should appear in the visual.
Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.

The shelves now show the columns with their alias names.

Optional: 
 On the Filters shelf, you can add several
            Dimensions and Measures from the
            DATA menu.

This enables you to dynamically control the data input and discover the data at a more
            granular level.
For example, from Dimensions, drag the 'un_region' and 'year'
            fields to the Filters shelf.
noteThe filter selection wizard appears each time you add a field to the
              Filters shelf. You can specify filter values at this time, or
            click CANCEL and select them later.
In this example, 'un_region' is set to 'Americas'. It should appear as un_region in
              ('Americas') on the Filters shelf. 'year' is set to '2001
            through 2010'. It should appear as year in (2001,2002,…,2010) on the
              Filters shelf.


Change the value on the Limit shelf to
          another number.
In this example, the new value is '12'.

 Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The updated Table visual appears.





Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'World Population - Table'. You can also add a
            brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the visualization.


At the top left corner of the Visual Builder, click 
            SAVE.







Related informationSpecifying maximum number of columnsCreating a visualChanging field aggregationCustomizing display formatShelves for tablesOverview of shelves for Cloudera Data Visualization Table visuals.Saving tablesCloudera Data Visualization enables you to save tabular data as its own table, and         writes it back to the database. It also enables you to produce a dataset based on data         exposed in a visual, which may be used for self-referenced application stacking.Parent topic: Visual type catalog