Using alphabetic values in interactive mapsCloudera Docs
Using alphabetic values in interactive maps
CDP Data Visualization Interactive Map visuals support both numeric and non-numeric
    values on the Color shelf. As a result, aspects of named categories can be viewed simultaneously
    on the same visual as a distinct series.

In the following example, truck movement data is used to demonstrate how to plot incident
        counts for several drivers, and differentiate them by the color.

Select the appropriate dataset, and create a new dashboard.

In the dashboard, open the default visual and change the visual type to
            Interactive Map.

 Enable the Circles, as described in Displaying circles.


Click the  Settings menu.


Select Circles > Enable Circles.



Enable both the area and color legends of the
            Circles option by selecting the Add Circle Area
            Legend and Add Circle Color Legend options.
Optional: 
Disable all the other layers: heatmap, cluster, marker, and route.

Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Geo Shelf - Under Measures, select
                latitude and longitude, and add them to the
                Geo shelf.
If your longitude and latitude measurements are not automatically recognized
              (appear with a (globe) icon on the Geo
              shelf), cast them to the appropriate Geo Type. 
Click the field on the shelf to open the FIELD PROPERTIES
                  menu.
Select Change Type and  choose
                    Latitude or Longitude as
                  appropriate.
For more information, see Change type and Geo data
              type.


Measures Shelf - Under Measures,
              select eventtype and place it on the measures shelf.


Change the aggregation function to count().
Alias the field as # Incidents.




Colors Shelf - Under Measures, select
                drivername, and place it on the Colors
              shelf.
You may need to remove the default field aggregation from the field on the shelf.
                Alias the field as Driver.


Filters Shelf - Add the field eventtype to
              this shelf, and select the single value 'Overspeed'.


Add the field drivername to the filters shelf.
Select a small number of drivers to see details.




Optional: 
Change the color palette to ensure that the routes stand out sufficiently over the
          regular features of the map: Click  Colors, and select an
          appropriate palette.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.


The visual is displayed. The colors are defined by the names of the drivers, which
          are non-numeric.



Change the title of the visual, and SAVE it.

Parent topic: Interactive maps