BulletCloudera DocsBullet
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Bullet visuals.

Bullet visuals are a variation of  bar charts, customized for showing progress towards a
        predefined goal. They are developed specifically for financial data, but may be used in many
        other situations. They are an alternative to gauges.
This is an example of a Bullet visual for a high schools. It illustrates the various
        elements of the bullet chart.




The dark bar in the middle of the visual represents the value on the
            Measure shelf. It is the feature measurement of the visual.
The lighter-shaded extension of the same bar is the expected value of the measure at a
          future date. This value is on the Projection shelf of the
          visual.
The vertical bar is the target value of the measurement. Place this calculation on the
            Compare To shelf.
Calculations on the Qualitative Ranges shelf determine the upper
          limits of the 'goodness' for the current measurement. From the origin to the upper value,
          they specify poor, better, good, and excellent performance. You may define anywhere from 0
          to 4 qualitative ranges.
The Label shelf overrides default labeling taken from the
            Measure shelf. This is an opportunity to clarify what is being
          measured, as well as the units of measurement. This shelf accepts a maximum of two
          values.

Just as other CDP Data Visualization visuals, the Bullet visual may be trellised using
          X and Y shelves, have additional fields on
        the Tooltips shelf, and you can use Filters
        with it. It also includes additional setting adjustments. For more information, see
          Shelves for bullet visuals.
The following example uses the 2012 and 2013 API Scores for California
        Schools. The School Performance dataset is used, which was built on a datafile that
        contains the California School APIs from 2012 and 2013. The range of possible scores varies
        from a low of 200 to a high of 1000. The statewide API performance target for all schools is
        800. However, each school that has not achieved that target may have a more realistic score
        set for it by the Department of Eduction, based on a number of factors we will not discuss
        here. 


Start a new visual based on the School Performance dataset.

For instructions, see Adding data, Creating datasets, and
              Creating a visual.


 In the VISUALS menu, find and click
            Bullet. 




The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Measure
            (mandatory), Compare To, Qualitative
              Ranges, Projection, Label,
              Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
              Trellis, and Filters.





Populate the shelves from the available fields ( in Dimensions
          and Measures) in the DATA menu. 


Measure - Add the field Api13, and change
              the aggregation, so that the shelf contains max([Api13]).

[Optional] Limit the output to the top 10 performers:

Click the (right-arrow) icon to the left of the field,
                  and select the Order and Top K option.
After the menu expands, enter 10 in the Top
                    K option.

[Optional] Alias the field as the name of the measurement.
                In this case, use API.
note The Measure shelf supports only positive
                values.



Compare To - Add the field Api12. Then
              customize the expression to reflect whether the school reached the state-wide target
              of API=800. 


Click the (right-arrow) icon to the left of the field,
                  and select the [ ] Enter/Edit Expression option.
In the Enter/Edit Expression modal window, change the
                  expression to the following formula:
                  Max(if([Api12] < 800, [Api12] + [Target], 800))
Click VALIDATE EXPRESSION to ensure that everything
                  works.
Click SAVE.

[Optional] Alias the field as Compare To.




Qualitative Ranges - Add the field Api12.
              Then, specify the equation that returns the upper limit of the first qualitative
              range. For this visual, simple scalar values are used.


Click the (right-arrow) icon to the left of the field,
                  and select the [ ] Enter/Edit Expression option.
In the Enter/Edit Expression modal window, change the
                  expression to the scalar value 600, and click
                    SAVE.
To create other ranges, simply click the  (right-arrow)
                  icon to the left of this field, and select the Duplicate
                  option. Then open the Enter/Edit Expression modal window
                  for the duplicate, change the value, and click SAVE.In
                    this example, four ranges are defined: at 600,
                      700. 800, and
                  1000.

[Optional] Alias the ranges as Range 1, Range
                      2, Range 3, and Range 4.





Projection - Add the field Api13. Then,
              specify the equation that projects the current measurement to some future date.


Click the (right-arrow) icon to the left of the field,
                  and select the [ ] Enter/Edit Expression option in the
                    FIELD PROPERTIES menu.
In the Enter/Edit Expression modal window, change the
                  expression to the following formula and click SAVE:
                  if(max([Api13]) > 800, max([Api13]), max([Api13]) + 2 * max([Target]))

[Optional] Alias the field as Projection.





Label - Add the field Api13, and convert
              the aggregation to maximum, for max([Api13]).

[Optional] Duplicate the field, and change its definition to
                  max('API'), using the Enter/Edit
                  Expression option in the FIELD PROPERTIES
                menu.. Move this field over the other field.



Tooltips - Add more fields here, such as
                Api12, Target, Dname,
                Sname, and so on. You can apply an Alias to
              these fields.


Y Trellis - Add the field Sname, and
                Alias it as School.


Filters - Add the filters here. Cname is
              used in this example for name of the County (selecting Santa Clara), and
                Stype for school type (choosing H for high school).


Y shelf - Ad the field Sname (school name)
              to trellis the visual.








[Optional] Click the  Settings menu, select
            Trellis, and de-select the Show trellis
            borders option.

[Optional] Click the  Colors menu, and select different options
          for Background Color and Foreground Color
          from the color palette menu. You may change the Projection Opacity
          too.

 Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The new Bullet visual appears. Note that it is trellised, which is why
          it is sorted on the Sname field (school name), not on the measure
            Api13.Additionally, the Projection value is
            not visible; this is because it is relatively low for high-performing schools.



Change the order property of the Measure shelf by selecting the
            Bottom K option with a value of 10, and click
            REFRESH VISUAL.

Note that in all cases here, the projection value is visible because it is relatively
            large compared to the projected improvement for schools that already reached the 800 API
            threshold.





 Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'High School Performance - Bullet. You can
            also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            CLOSE.
To adjust the Bullet visual, check all the available settings for this visual.Shelves for bulletsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Bullet visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog