Box plotCloudera DocsBox plot
Cloudera Data Visualization enables you to create Box Plot visuals.

A Box Plot visual displays the distribution of data values. The box represents the bulk of
        the data (25th percentile through 75th percentile), and whisker lines
        represent statistical minimum and maximum values. 
The following example uses the 2012 and 2013 API Scores for California Schools. The
          School Performance dataset is used, which is built on a datafile that contains the
        California School APIs from 2012 and 2013. The range of possible scores varies from a low of
        200 to a high of 1000. The statewide API performance target for all schools is 800.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for box
        plots.

Start a new visual based on the NYC Taxi Data dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, find and click Box
            Plot. 


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Dimension,
            Measure, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters.The mandatory shelves
            are:
Dimension: you can specify one dimension for grouping the box
              plot
Measure: you can specify the measurement for box plot
              calculations




 Populate the shelves:


Add the Dname (district name) field to the
                Dimension shelf.


Add the Api13 (API obtained in 2013)field to the
                Measure shelf.


Add the Cname (county name) field to the
                Filters shelf, and select a single value. In this example,
                Santa Clara is  used.


Add the Stype (school type) field to the
                Filters shelf, and select the value H, for
                Highschool.


Optional: 
Alias the shelves.

 Click  REFRESH VISUAL. 




The new Box Plot visual appears.





Hovering over a particular box plot distribution rectangle opens a Tooltip modal that
          contains the statistical measures of that grouping, including the minimum, the first
          quartile, the median/second quartile, the third quartile, and the maximum. 






 Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'High School Performance - Box Plot'. You can
            also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
If you wish to generate a horizontal Box Plot visual, see the instructions in Making
          box plots horizontal.To adjust the Box Plot display, check all the available settings for this visual.
Related informationCreating a visualMaking box plots horizontalShelves for box plotsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Box Plot visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog