Packed bubblesCloudera DocsPacked bubbles
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Packed Bubbles visuals.

Packed Bubbles visuals compare the relative values in close physical proximity. Two main
        series of data are used: the field on the Dimensions shelf names the
        bubble and the field on the Measures shelf determines the relative
        area of the bubble.
This is different from the traditional approach, where bubbles represent three dimensions
        of data — one each for horizontal and vertical axes, and one for the area of bubble. This
        type of visualization is part of flexibility built into Scatter visuals available in CDP
        Data Visualization.
note
This visual type supports smooth rendering of streaming data.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new Packed Bubbles visual on the
          World Life Expectancy dataset [data source
          samples.world_life_expectancy]. For an overview of shelves that specify
        this visual, see Shelves for packed bubbles visuals.

Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click Packed
            Bubbles.


The shelves of the visual changed.They are now Dimension,
              Measure, Color,
              Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
              Trellis, and Filters.Both
              Dimension and Measure are
            mandatory.



Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions,
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select country and drag
              it to the Dimension shelf.


Under Measures, select population and drag
              it to the Measure shelf.







Change the aggregate of the population field from
            sum(population) to avg(population):


On the shelf of the visual, click the caret-right icon to
              the right of the field.


In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, click Aggregates > Average.







Click the x icon at the top of the Column
                Properties menu to close it.


Click  REFRESH VISUAL.

The Packed Bubbles visual appears.





On the Filters shelf, add further
            Dimensions and Measures from the
            DATA menu.

This enables you to dynamically control the data input, and discover the data at a more
            granular level.
For example, from Dimensions, drag year to the
              Filters shelf.


On the Filter shelf, click the (down
            arrow) icon on the year field, and select Pick
            values from a list.
The Filter for year modal window appears.

In the Values tab, select 2010, and click
            APPLY.

On the Measures shelf, click the (down arrow)
           icon on the avg(population) field, select Order
            and Top K, and select Ascending.






Click REFRESH VISUAL to see the updated Packed Bubbles
          chart.






 Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'World Population - Packed Bubbles'. You can
            also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.

Shelves for packed bubblesOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Packed Bubbles visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog