Choropleth Canadian province mapCloudera DocsChoropleth Canadian province map
CDP Data Visualization Map visuals support choropleth mapping of measurements over a
    map of Canadian Provinces and Territories.

A map of Canada shows a comparison of measurement values among Canadian Provinces and
        Territories. The following steps demonstrate how to create a new choropleth map of Canada.
        This example uses the Canadian Census dataset, constructed from the
          canada_census_population_dwellings.csv and
          ca-postal-codes.csvfiles, and joined of the fields fsa
        and Postal Code, respectively. For more information, see Canadian
          census,  Adding data, and Creating datasets.
tipRemember that to map province information, the dimension must be recognized
        as a Geo Type. For more information, see Specifying geographic fields.

Start a new visual based on the Canadian Census dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Geo,
            Color, Size, Drill,
            Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for
          map visuals is Geo.



 Populate the shelves from the DATA menu:


Under Dimensions, select Province from the
              table ca_postal_codes and add it to the Geo
              shelf.


Under Measures, select Population 2011 from
              table canada_census_population_dwellings and add it to the
                Colors shelf.



Specify the use of Canada Map View in the Settings > Map interface.
For instructions, see Map view.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.
Optional: 
Alias the fields as necessary; see Alias. 
Optional: 
Enable panning and zooming option, as described in Customizing zoom.
Optional: 
Change the color palette, as described in Changing color palette of
            visuals.

Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'Canadian 2011 Population - Province
            Choropleth'. You can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the
            title of the visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.


Your visual should look something like this:



Parent topic: Maps