Choropleth US state mapCloudera DocsChoropleth US state map
CDP Data Visualization Map visuals let you plot measurements, as areas, over US State
    regions.

A map of the United States shows a comparison of measurement values among US States. The
        following steps demonstrate how to create a new map visual on the dataset US County
          Population [data source samples.us_counties]. It produces colored
        regions for the measurements that correspond to the state field.

Start a new visual based on the US County Population dataset.
For instructions,  see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Geo,
            Color, Size, Drill,
            Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for
          map visuals is Geo.



Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions,
            Measures) in the DATA menu. 


Under Dimensions, select stname and add it
              to the Geo shelf.


Click the field to open the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, expand
              the Change Type option, and select the Geo
                Type
State.


Under Measures, select tot_pop and add it
              to the Colors shelf.


Click the field to open the Field Properties menu, select
                Display Format,Category
Integer, and select the thousands separator option. Click
                Save.







Optional: 
Alias the field stname as State, and
            sum(tot_pop) as Population; see Alias.
        
Optional: 
Enable panning and zooming option, as described in Customizing zoom.
Optional: 
Change the color palette, as described in Change color palette of
          visuals.

 Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The map visual appears.



Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'US State Population - Choropleth Map'. You
            can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Parent topic: Maps