NetworkCloudera DocsNetwork
In CDP Data Visualization, Network visuals can be used to represent many systems and
    structures. The implementation is dynamic, with ongoing optimization adjustments that implement
    a force layout based on the Barnes–Hut approximation. It also includes many manual setting
    adjustments.

In the following example, the NCAA Basketball dataset is used for years 1985 through
        2018.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for
        networks.

Start a new visual based on the NCAA Basketball dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, find and click
            Network.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Nodes,
            Link Width, Link Color, Source
            Node Size, Target Node Size, Source Node
            Color, Target Node Color,
Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. There is only one mandatory
          shelf: Nodes, which adds two dimensions from the data menu to
          specify the start and end of each network connection in the plot.

To learn more about the shelves of this visual, see Shelves for
            networks.

 Populate the shelves from the fields available in the DATA
          menu:


Under Dimensions, select Team 1 and
                Team 2, and add them to the Nodes
              shelf.


Under Measures, select Year and add it to
              the Filters shelf. Select the years 2015,
                2016, and 2017.


Add Round to the Filters shelf, and select
                1.



 Click REFRESH VISUAL. 


The new network visual appears. You can see that this visual shows 1:1 pairing,
          because round 1 of play represents 1:1 elimination.



 To show the years separately, place the Year field on the
            Y Trellis shelf and click REFRESH
          VISUAL.
The trellised version of the network visual appears.



 Change the title to Round 1, 2015-2017.



Click  (pencil icon) next to the title of the visualization
                to edit it, and enter the new name.


[Optional] Click (pencil icon) below the title of the
                visualization to add a brief description of the visual.




Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'Round 1, 2015-2017'. You can also add a brief
            description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
To adjust the network display, check all the available settings for this visual.For more information, see Network visuals: same source and target data values and
          Advanced options for network visuals. These topics demonstrate some of the
        many customizations that make the network visual an extremely versatile analysis tool.Shelves for networksOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Network visuals.Advanced options for networksNetwork visuals enable you to show a large amount of supplemental information directly by     using the optional shelves of the visual, and the various settings for Marks, Nodes, and     Links.Parent topic: Visual type catalog