ChordCloudera DocsChord
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Chord visuals. These visuals expose the
    inter-relationships between entities, making them an ideal choice for comparing the similarities
    within a dataset, or between different groups of data. The nodes/dimensions are on the
    circumference of a circle, and the relationships between them are the arcs inside the circle.
    The size of the node is proportional to the measurement. CDP Data Visualization uses color to
    help distinguish the overlapping relationship arcs.

Chord visuals are similar to Correlation Heatmaps because they both compare exactly two
        dimensions. Chords, however, plot dimensions that cover the same value domain, and are
        better at pointing out the presence of a relationship between nodes than the relative
        magnitude of that relationship.
The following steps demonstrate how to create a new chord visual on the SF Cabrides
        dataset. This dataset is based on data previously imported into CDV Data Visualization from
        a datafile. Each distinct line segment between two dimensions reports the correlation data.
        Because the values for pick-up and drop-off areas, srcarea and
          tgtarea , are in the same domain, it makes the dataset ideal for
        demonstrating chord visuals.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for chord
          visuals.

Start a new visual based on the SF Cabrides dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, find and click
            Chord.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Dimensions,
            Measure, Tooltips, X
            Trellis, Y Trellis and
          Filters. Both Dimensions and
            Measure are mandatory.



Populate the shelves from the fields available in the DATA
          menu:


From Dimensions, select srcarea and
                trgarea, and drag them to the Dimensions
              shelf.


From Measures, select rides and place it to
              the Measure shelf.



 Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The Chord visual appears.
Figure 1. Chord Visual



Optional: 
Check the details of the individual dimensions:


Hover the pointer over one of the nodes.
The visual shows the connections that originate or terminate with this specific
              value, as well as the tooltip. In the following image, you can see all connections for
              'South of Market'.


Hover the pointer over one of the connections.
The tooltip shows the detail for that connection: starting and ending notes, and
              the measurement.



Figure 2. Viewing Details of a Chord Visual




Click  EDIT next to the title of the visualization, and change
          the title to 'San Francisco Cab Rides - Chord'.

At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Shelves for chordsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Chord visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog