Importing a visualCloudera Docs
Importing a visual
In Cloudera Data Visualization, you can import linked visuals from another system using
    an appropriate .json file that captures the definitions of these visual
    artifacts and all their dependencies (such as datasets and custom styles).

Follow these steps to import a visual.

Click DATA in the Main navigation
          bar.
Select the connection where to import the artifacts.

In this example the samples connection has been selected, showing connecting to
            the same data source for both systems.

At the top of the screen, click the (ellipsis) icon for the
            (supplemental) menu.




The Import Visual Artifacts modal window appears.




Click Choose File.Select the file you want to import.In this example, visuals_flow_of_events.json is selected.


Click Open.
Specify the destination workspace in the Import to Workspace
          drop-down menu.By default, Data Visualization imports the visual artifacts
          into your Private workspace. However, you can choose the Public workspace,
          or another workspace.Specify how you want to handle thumbnails.By default, Data Visualization imports the thumbnails from the file. However, you can choose
          to generate new thumbnails during the import process, or skip thumbnail import.

Define the Disregard artifacts that exist in other workspaces
           option.Before importing an artifact, Data Visualization searches for it in the system. If it already
          exists, it is either updated (if changed from a previous import), or left 'as is'. If it
          does not exist, it is imported as a new visual artifact. By default, the search domain is
          the entire system. By selecting this option, you are limiting the search to the specified
          workspace.Check data table compatibility.This is to confirm that tables suitable
          for the incoming dataset(s) exist on the system. It means that the database and tables
          have the same names on the source and target systems. This option is 'on' by
          default.Click IMPORT.
After processing the import .json file, Data Visualization opens the
              Import interface to show its visual artifacts.
In this example, the Planned Action column shows that this is a
            new import for all artifacts. At this point, none of them have an assigned ID.



Click ACCEPT AND IMPORT.
After the import completes, a success message appears on the
        Import interface. All artifacts have an assigned ID generated by the
      system sequentially. Visuals/Dashboards and datasets have separate ID queues.

For instructions on how to export a visual, see Exporting a
        visual.For more information about the visual artifact migration utility, see
          Exporting and importing visual artifacts.Related informationExporting a visualExporting and importing visual artifacts