US zipcode map with bubblesCloudera DocsUS zipcode map with bubbles
In CDP Data Visualization Map visuals, you can plot measurements based on zipcode data.
    Bubble maps display up to two measurements simultaneously: as the color of the bubble, and as
    the relative size of the bubble.

A zip code map of the United States shows a comparison of measurement values across US
        States. Zipcode maps only work with bubble options. The Income Tax Returns dataset is
        used in this example, which is built on the tax_returns.csv datafile that
        contains statistical information about Personal Income Tax Returns for 2016
          (zip_tax_returns_2016.csv), summarized by zipcode.

Start a new visual based on the Income Tax Returns dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Geo,
            Color, Size, Drill,
            Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for
          map visuals is Geo.



Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Select Zipcode and add it to the Geo
              shelf.
The field is automatically accepted as a Geo Type.


Apply the display format for integers, removing the 1000s separator.
For instructions, see Integer display format.


In the DATA menu, enter the term 'schf' in the 
                Search box, and add the field to the Size
              shelf.


Alias the field as Farm Returns.


 Select State and add it to the  Filters
              shelf. When the Filter for State window modal appears, select
              the South Atlantic region states under the Values tab:
                DC (District of Columbia), DE (Delaware), FL (Florida),
                GA (Georgia), MD (Maryland), NC (North Carolina), SC
              (South Carolina), VA (Virginia), and WV (West Virginia). Click
                Apply. 







Adjust the size range of the marks to 1-3, as described in Changing the mark size
          range.Optional: 
Change the color palette or simple reverse it, as described in Change color
            palette visuals and Reverse color palette visuals.
Optional: 
Enable panning and zooming option, as described in Customizing zoom.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The map visual appears. You can adjust the size and focus of the visual to show the
          area of interest.



Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'Income Tax Returns - Zipcode'. You can also
            add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Parent topic: Maps