MapsCloudera DocsMaps
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Map visuals.
A geomap of a country, continent, or region superimposes measurement values onto a geographic map.
CDP Data Visualization has two basic geomap representation options:
A filled or choropleth map (Greek χώρο for area or region and πλήθος for
        multitude) shows geographical areas that are shaded in proportion to the value of the
        measurement that is displayed on the map. tipConsider the following when
          building choropleth maps: 
Use choropleth maps when your data are attached to enumeration units, such as
              counties, countries, zipcodes, and so on.
Standardize data to show rates and ratios instead of raw data counts. For example,
              instead of plotting gross GDP, plot GDP per Capita.
Use choropleth maps when you have data with continuous statistical surface. For
                example, Population is a count and representing it in colored map may be
                misleading. Population density is a ratio with a continuous statistical
              surface (even where 0 represents unpopulated areas); so it can be
              used in choropleth maps. 
A geomap with symbols or marks, such as bubbles, superimposes these symbols onto a
        geographical map. By default, the area of the marks corresponds to the relative size of the
        measurement.
CDP Data Visualization supports the following geographical specifications by automatically
      recognizing them as qualified GEO dimensions inside the dataset:
countrystate or province for United States and Canada,
        respectivelycounty, for United States onlyzipcode or postal code for United States and
        Canada, respectivelylongitude and latitudeDMA, for Nielsen Designated Market Area Regions, in United States
If the relevant field in your dataset is not named correctly, be sure to adjust it using the
        Change Type Geo Option, described in Change type. Note
      also that you must use Geo Type fields when limiting the Drill Into options. For more
      information, see Limiting drill into options.
To build the two types of map visuals with specified geographical units, follow the
      instructions for each option. Additionally, see the description on how to build a
        Trellised map.
 For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for maps.

Choropleth country map Map visuals can show relative measurement values for countries as colored areas. A     world map can be used to show a comparison of measurement values among countries. With data that     meets ratio and statistical continuity guidelines, a choropleth map is a good chart     choice.Country map with bubblesCDP Data Visualization Map visuals can use bubbles to show relative measurement values     for countries. You can display two measurements at the same time: the first measurement as the     color of the bubble, and the second one as the relative size of the bubble.Choropleth US state mapCDP Data Visualization Map visuals let you plot measurements, as areas, over US State     regions.US state map with bubblesCDP Data Visualization Map visuals let you plot measurements, as bubbles, over US         State regions. Bubble maps display up to two measurements simultaneously: as the color of         the bubble, and as the relative size of the bubble.Choropleth US county mapIn CDP Data Visualization Map visuals, you can plot measurements as areas over US     County regions.US county map with bubblesCDP Data Visualization Map visuals let you plot measurements, as bubbles, over US     County regions. Bubble maps display up to two measurements simultaneously: as the color of the     bubble, and as the relative size of the bubble.US zipcode map with bubblesIn CDP Data Visualization Map visuals, you can plot measurements based on zipcode data.     Bubble maps display up to two measurements simultaneously: as the color of the bubble, and as     the relative size of the bubble.Latitude and longitude map with bubblesCDP Data Visualization Map visuals support measurement plots over a geographic map,     based on latitude and longitude. Bubble maps display up to two measurements simultaneously: as     the color of the bubble, and as the relative size of the bubble.Choropleth DMA mapIn CDP Data Visualization Map visual, you can visualize measurements on a map of DMA     regions. A DMA map shows various measurements plotted relative to Nielsen Designated Market Area     Regions. Choropleth Canadian province mapCDP Data Visualization Map visuals support choropleth mapping of measurements over a     map of Canadian Provinces and Territories.Canadian province map, bubblesCDP Data Visualization Map visuals enable you to show measurements, as bubbles, over a     map of Canadian Provinces and Territories. Bubble maps display up to two measurements     simultaneously: as the color of the bubble, and as the relative size of the bubble.Choropleth Canadian postal code mapCDP Data Visualization Map  visuals support choropleth mapping of measurements over a     map of Canadian FSA and Postal Codes.Canadian postal code map, bubblesCDP Data Visualization Map  visuals support choropleth mapping of measurements over a     map of Canadian FSA and Postal Codes. Map visual provides support for mapping     measurements, as bubbles, over a map of Canadian FSA and Postal Codes. Bubble maps display up to     two measurements simultaneously: as the color of the bubble, and as the relative size of the     bubble.Shelves for mapsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Map visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog