Plotting routes on interactive mapsCloudera DocsPlotting routes on interactive maps
CDP Data Visualization enables you to plot routes over an Interactive Map.

With CDP Data Visualization, you can plot routes over a map by specifying distinct IDs on
        the Color shelf, a time series on the Tooltips
        shelf, and enabling routes as described in Enabling routes.
The following steps demonstrate how to plot routes on an interactive map. In the following
        example, truck movement data is used.

Select the appropriate dataset, and create a new dashboard.

In the dashboard, open the default visual and change the visual type to
            Interactive Map.

Enable the Routes, as described in Enabling
          routes


Click the Settings menu.


Select Routes/Pins > Enable Routes.


Optional: 
Disable heatmap and cluster. It is recommended that you leave the circles
          in place, so it shows the individual elements of the route. If you choose to hide the
          circles, the graph only shows the route connectors.

Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Geo Shelf - Under Measures, select
                latitude and longitude, and add them to the
                Geo shelf.
If your longitude and latitude measurements are not automatically recognized
              (appear with a (globe) icon on the Geo
              shelf), cast them to the appropriate Geo Type. 
Click the field on the shelf to open the FIELD PROPERTIES
                  menu.
Select Change Type and  choose
                    Latitude or Longitude as
                  appropriate.
For more information, see Change type and Geo data
              type.


Colors Shelf - Under Measures, select
                truckid, and place it on the Colors
              shelf.
You may need to remove the aggregation from the field on the shelf.


Tooltips Shelf - Under Dimensions,
              find the eventtime field, and add it to the shelf.


Click the field on the shelf to open the FIELD PROPERTIES
                  menu.
Click Order and Top K.
Choose the Ascending order.




Filters Shelf - [Optional] To restrict the number of routes,
              you can choose the filter on the routename field. To restrict the
              number of trucks displayed, you may choose to restrict on truckid
              field, and so on.


Measure Shelf - [Optional] You can display a measure
              here.


Optional: 
Change the color palette to ensure that the routes stand out sufficiently over the
          regular features of the map: click Colors and select an appropriate
          palette.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.


The visual is displayed.



Change the title of the visual, and SAVE it.
Parent topic: Interactive maps