Creating a visualCloudera DocsCreating a visual
In Cloudera Data Visualization you can easily create new visual representations for
    your data.
The following steps demonstrate how to create a new
      visual:
 On the main navigation bar, click VISUALS. 

 Click NEW DASHBOARD to open a new dashboard, in Edit
          mode.




If you already have an existing dashboard and you just want to add a new visual, open
            the dashboard and click EDIT to make changes to it.





 In the Dashboard Designer interface, open the
            Visuals menu from the side menu bar, and click NEW
            VISUAL.






 The Visual Builder interface appears.
By default, a table visual is selected. For more information, see the Visual
            Builder overview.

Choose the visual type you want to build.
In this example, the Bars visual has been selected.
          



Optional: 
You can switch on Sample Mode for the visual you are
          building.
With sample mode, you create the visual on a subset of your data to test it. You can
          define this subset as a percentage of the original data. noteThis
            feature is only available on Impala, Hive, and Spark connections.



Populate the shelves of the visual from the Dimensions and
            Measures fields:
In this example, the following fields have been added:
state dimension on the X Axis
              shelf
population measure on the Y Axis
                shelfnoteThe population measure
                appears with its default aggregation, as
              sum(population).
year measure on the Colors shelf
year measure on the Filters shelfnoteThe Filter for year module opens
                automatically. Years 1970, 1980, 1990, 2000, and
                  2010 have been selected.


Click REFRESH VISUAL.






Click the enter title... field and enter a name for the
          visual.



In this example the title 'Recent US Census Results by State' has been added.


You can also click the enter subtitle... field below the
                title of the visualization to add a brief description of the visual.




At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Related informationVisual Builder