TreemapCloudera Docs
Treemap
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Treemap visuals. Treemaps display
    hierarchical data as a set of nested rectangles. Each 'branch' of the tree is a rectangle that
    corresponds to a particular dimension, with smaller rectangles that represent secondary
    dimensions. All rectangle areas are proportional to the aggregate measure that corresponds to
    the dimension.

Using color and size dimensions in the tree structure often brings to light new insights
        and correspondence patterns. Because of the highly efficient use of space, treemaps legibly
        display very large number of items simultaneously.
In the following example the NYC Taxi Trips dataset is used, which is based on the
        data in the  ny-trips.csv file.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for
        treemaps.

Start a new visual based on the NYC Taxi Trips dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, find and click
            Treemap.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Dimensions,
            Measure, Tooltips, X
            Trellis, Y Trellis, and
            Filters. The mandatory shelves are:
Dimensions: specify one or two dimensions to define the
              branches and leaf nodes of the treemap.
Measure: specifies one measurement that determines the area
              of the leaf node.




Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select Pickup Boro and
                Pickup Neighborhood, and add them to the
                Dimensions shelf, in that order.




Under Measures, select Record Count and add
              it to the Measure shelf.








Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The new treemap visual appears.



Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'NYC Taxi - Treemap'. You can also add a brief
            description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
To adjust the treemap display, check all the available settings for this visual.
Shelves for treemapsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Treemap visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog