Field statisticsCloudera Docs
Field statistics
Cloudera Data Visualization enables you to create Field statistics visuals.
        Field statistics visuals describe the dataset in statistical terms. They work across all
        data connections, and on datasets that contain table joins.

Start a new visual based on the US County Population dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

Select Field Statistics in the
                        VISUALS menu.




The visual appears as a table that shows the following statistical
                        information for each field in the dataset.
Actions column contains some widgets for
                                making changes to the appearance of the table.
Field column indicates the name of the
                                dataset field, and provides an option to include only a limited
                                number of top values, when applicable.
Type column indicates the data type of the
                                dataset field.
Distinct Values column reports the number of
                                distinct values for this field. This is typically a good indication
                                of the field's suitability as a dimension.

Minimum column reports the smallest
                                    (lowest) value in the dataset field. For strings, this would be
                                    the 'least' in alphabetical sort. 
In this example, for field stname (state name),
                                    this would be Alabama, and for field
                                        ctyname (county name), this would be
                                        Abbeville County.


Maximum column reports the largest
                                    (highest) value in the dataset field. For strings, this would be
                                    the 'greatest' in alphabetical sort.
In this example, for field stname (state name),
                                    this would be Wyoming, and for field
                                        ctyname (county name), this would be
                                        Zieback County.

Detail column holds a graphic that is either
                                a bar chart of top K values, or a distribution histogram of these
                                values, for each column.



You can make changes to the visual through the following actions:


In the Actions column, click the
                                (double up) icon to move the field to the
                            very top of the table.


In the Actions column, click the
                                (up) icon to move the field up one row in the
                            table.


In the Actions column, click the
                                (down) icon to move the field down one row in
                            the table.


In the Actions column, click the
                                (trash) icon to remove the field from the
                            table.


In the Field column, toggle between:



Change to top k to change the
                                        Detail column to show a bar
                                    representation of the top 20 values (default) for the dataset
                                    field
Change to histogram to change the
                                        Detail column to show a distribution
                                    histogram for the dataset field










Change the title to US County Populations - Field Statistics.
[Optional] You can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle
                    below the title of the visualization.

Click SAVE at the top left corner of the
                        Dashboard Designer.


In View mode, the Field statistics visual does not have actions, or it does
                not contain the Actions column.





Parent topic: Visual type catalog