Choropleth country mapCloudera DocsChoropleth country map
 Map visuals can show relative measurement values for countries as colored areas. A
    world map can be used to show a comparison of measurement values among countries. With data that
    meets ratio and statistical continuity guidelines, a choropleth map is a good chart
    choice.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new map visual on the dataset World Life
          Expectancy [data source samples.world_life_expectancy]. It produces
        colored regions for the measurements that correspond to the country
        field.

Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions,  see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Geo,
            Color, Size, Drill,
            Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for
          map visuals is Geo.



Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu. 


Under Dimensions, select country and add it
              to the Geo shelf.


Under Measures, select gdp_per_capita and
              add it to the Color shelf.


Under Measures, select year and add it to
              the  Filters shelf. When the Filter for
                year window modal appears, select 2010 in the
                Values tab, and click Apply.








Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The map visual graph appears.


Optional: 
On the Tooltips shelf, add several fields from
            Dimensions and Measures.
This enables you to see specific descriptive information in your visuals, such as
          input values, segment affiliation, and calculations.For example, from
              Dimensions, add un_subregion,
              un_region, and year onto the
              Tooltip shelf.
Optional: 
Alias the fields on the shelves to improve the readability of the visual and its
          tooltip. See Alias. 


gdp_per_capita as GDP per Capita
un_subregion as UN Subregion
un_region as UN Region
year as Year


Optional: 
Format the number reported by the GDP per Capita field to include a
          thousands separator, and format Year not to use the thousands separator. 
For more information, see Real number display format and Integer
            display format.
Optional: 
[Recommended] Enable panning and zooming option, as described in Customizing
            zoom.
Optional: 
Change the color palette to blue, as described in Change color palette of
            visuals.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The map visual appears. You can move the visual (pan), zoom in and out, and see the
          details in the Tooltips text.



Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'World Population - Choropleth Map'. You can
            also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.

Parent topic: Maps