Adding transition animation to scatter visualsCloudera DocsAdding transition animation to scatter visuals
Scatter visuals have a powerful feature called transition animation.

In the World Life Expectancy dataset, the time is used as the transition 'axis' to
        show how GDP per capita, life expectancy, and population size changes over time, from year
        1990 through year 2010.
The starting point of the following example is the 'World Population - Scatter with Size'
        visual developed in Adding size to scatters.

Click Clone to create a new visual that has the same properties
          as the original.






Under Dimensions, select year and drag it to
          the Transition shelf.

On the sum(population) field, click the (right
            arrow) icon to open the FIELD PROPERTIES menu.

Expand Aggregates and select
          Average.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The Scatter visual refreshes, but this time you can see that it has animation controls
            at the very top, over the vertical axis legend. The controls common to all video
            animations: 'play' (which changes to 'pause' when the animation is active), 'back to
            start', 'back-up', 'advance', and 'to end'.
You can also notice that both axes extend far beyond the data points for the initial
            conditions, year=1990. This is because the cover the entire range of measurements for
            all data.




Optional: 
Turn on the gridline option, as described in Enabling gridlines.
Optional: 
Adjust the speed of animation, as described in Changing transition
          delay.

Press play and see the changes in data.
Here are some highlights:
The World-Wide downward bounce in life expectancy centered on 1918, due to the
              Spanish Flu pandemic.


The Soviet Union secularization efforts and agricultural policies in its Asian
              territories resulted in war and famine that claimed many lives in Uzbekistan,
              Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Turkmenistan. This is reflected in the
              precipitous decrease in life expectancy for these countries in 1919-1923, with
              heaviest losses in 1920.


There was another significant decrease in life expectancy due to the loss of as many
              as 8 million lives in the Soviet famine of 1932–33 and more specifically, the
              Hlodomor. Soviet Union farm collectivization in the Russia and Ukraine withheld grain
              from farmers and collectivized farms until unrealistic production quotas were be
                met.


The United States economy grew rapidly from mid-1930s through mid-1940s, because New
              Deal's economic relief and work creation policies stabilized the country after the
              Great Depression, while the World War II material support of the Allies and its own
              involvement in Europe, Africa, and the Pacific meant even greater production of
              materials, armaments, and two new naval fleets. You can see that GDP per capita
              increased nearly 3-fold, while the population increase and life expectancy were
              relatively modest.



The exceptional increase in GDP in a very modest country of Kuwait after the
                discovery of the world's sixth largest oil deposits in 1938, through 1956 peak
                levels of GDP per capita growth, and large scale modernization from 1946 through
                1982. After a period of international instability in 1980s, the 1990 invasion by
                Iraq destroyed much of the infrastructure. After 1991 US intervention, the country
                has been rebuilding its infrastructure.






 Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'World Population - Scatter with Transition'.
            You can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
While we can see the data for individual countries more clearly, it is often useful to contrast well-defined logical segments of data.As a next step,you can compare and contrast GDP per capita and life expectancy for different UN
        Regions in Adding trellises to scatter visuals.
Parent topic: Scatter