ActionCloudera Docs
Action
CDP Data Visualization enables you to include interactive, actionable elements in your
    dashboards and applications. You can use the Action visual to provide access to external sources
    of information or to internal search within your dataset.

The three main use cases of the Action visual are:



Linking
You can use Action to navigate to an external website or another application, and
                to move between different parts of your dashboard.




Search
You can provide a shortcut to the search pane of your current
                  dataset(s).noteBefore using search in Data Visualization, you must enable the
                  feature in the Site Settings. For instructions, see
                    Enabling NLS in Site Settings.




Email
You can share your visuals through email by sending out your dashboard in an
                  email.noteBefore using this function, you must define your email settings in the
                    Site Settings to allow users to share visuals through
                  email. For instructions, see Email settings.



The following steps demonstrate how to create an Action visual based on the Restaurant
          Inspection SF dataset.

Start a new visual based on the Restaurant Inspection SF
          dataset.For instructions, see Creating a visual.By default, a table visual is
            displayed that shows all fields in the dataset.In the VISUALS menu, find and click the
            Action icon.

The shelves of the visual change.From the Type drop-down list, choose the action element you
          want to add to your dashboard. You can select Button or
            Image.

If you choose Button, the remaining shelves are the
                following: 
Label
Add the text you want to show on the button. The default value is ‘Click
                      me!’. 
Action
Select the action you want to invoke with the button. The options available
                      in the drop-down list are Open URL, Search
                        Dataset, and Send email.
If you choose Open URL, you can add the address
                          of the webpage in the URL to open field.
If you choose Search Dataset, you can select an
                          additional checkbox whether you want to include all datasets on the
                          sheet.
If you choose Send email, you do not have to fill
                          in additional fields.

Button Type
Select the button type that you want to add. The options available in the
                      drop-down list have different designs. The default value is ‘Primary’.
Button Size
Select the size of the button from the drop-down list. The default value is
                      ‘Normal’.




If you choose Image, the remaining shelves are the
                following: 
Image URL
Add the URL of the image file that you want to add to your Action
                      visual.
Action
Select the action you want to invoke with the button. The options available
                      in the drop-down list are Open URL, Search
                        Dataset, and Send email.
If you choose Open URL, you can add the address
                          of the webpage in the URL to open field.
If you choose Search Dataset, you can select an
                          additional checkbox whether you want to include all datasets on the
                          sheet.
If you choose Send email, you do not have to fill
                          in additional fields.




Click REFRESH VISUAL.The updated Action visual
          appears.
At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.

In this example, you can see a dashboard with three action visuals and a table
        visual:

Action button for email
The blue Action button is a large Primary button that you can use for sending
            the dashboard to an email address:



Action button for search
The green Action button is a large Info button that you can use for searching
            the dataset:



Action clickable image with link
The Action image is clickable and it points to a Wikipedia page about food safety in
            the US:




Related informationEnabling NLS in Site SettingsEmail settingsCreating a visualParent topic: Visual type catalog