Visual type catalogCloudera Docs
Visual type catalog
Cloudera Data Visualization has a rich offering of visualization types to assist you in
    analyzing data.
Click each visual to see how to build and use the visual type.
noteThe following visual types support smooth
        rendering of streaming data: Lines, Bars, Areas,
          Stacked bars, Combo, Calendar heatmap,
          Correlation heatmap, Packed bubbles, Pie, and
          Scatter.




Table
Cross
                tabulation
Bars
Lines
Combo
Areas


Grouped bars
KPI
Gauge
Row listing
Bullet
Box plot



Packed bubbles
Word cloud
Scatter
Pie
Radial
Chord


Network
Dendrogram
Treemap
Correlation
                heatmap
Correlation flow
Calendar
                heatmap


Map
Interactive
                map
Sparklines
Action
Search
Timeline


External link
Histogram
Extensions
Rich text
Field
                  statistics
Queries




TableA Table visual displays the fields of the underlying dataset. It may be sorted along     any measure or dimension, and its cells can be formatted using format strings.Cross tabulationCross Tabulation visual is a tool that allows you to compare the relationship between     two variables in table format. Cloudera Data Visualization enhances the understanding of     relative value size by assigning more saturated colors to the table fields with larger     values.BarsIn CDP Data Visualization, bar charts use either vertical or horizontal bars to show     comparisons among categories. One axis shows specific categories (typically, dimensions), while     the other axis represents discrete values (measures).LinesIn CDP Data Visualization, a line chart displays information as a series of data     points, or markers, connected by straight line segments. It reveals trends or change over time.     Line charts show relationships within a continuous data set, and can be applied to a wide     variety of categories. While line charts are similar to scatter plots, the line chart orders the     measurements along the primary axis and it is often used to visualize a time series.Combined bar/line visualsIn CDP Data Visualization, Combined Bar/Line (Combo) visuals unite bar and line plots       to enable easy comparison of trends and measures across the same dimensions.AreasIn CDP Data Visualization, Areas visuals are a good choice for representing related     values over time because they emphasize the relative proportions of totals or percentage     relationships. With volume stacked beneath the line, the chart clearly demonstrates both the     total of the fields and their relative size.Grouped barsCDP Data Visualization, enables you to create Grouped Bar visuals. While bar charts     show comparisons among categories, grouped bar charts show clustered groups of related     measurements as bars.KPICDP Data Visualization enables you to create Key Performance Indicator (KPI) visuals.     KPI visuals return values to emphasize particular areas of dashboards or applications. They can     be used to provide section titles, totals for segmented data, draw attention to aggregation     results, and so on.GaugeIn CDP Data Visualization, Gauge visuals are powerful tools for communicating     performance against set targets, projected trends, and a qualitative assessment of the     measurement.Row listingCDP Data Visualization allows you to create Row Listing visuals. Row Listing is useful     when you want to display raw data in a structured format.BulletCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Bullet visuals.Box plotCloudera Data Visualization enables you to create Box Plot visuals.Packed bubblesCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Packed Bubbles visuals.Word cloudCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Word Cloud visuals.ScatterCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Scatter visuals. Scatter charts (or     scatter plots) have points that show the relationship between two sets of data. They are great     for detecting groupings or patterns in a large set of data points. PieCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Pie charts.RadialIn CDP Data Visualization, Radial charts are a good approach for comparing the relative     values of several measures. These measures are assigned an equal angle of rotation, and the     relative values are represented through the areas of each wedge.ChordCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Chord visuals. These visuals expose the     inter-relationships between entities, making them an ideal choice for comparing the similarities     within a dataset, or between different groups of data. The nodes/dimensions are on the     circumference of a circle, and the relationships between them are the arcs inside the circle.     The size of the node is proportional to the measurement. CDP Data Visualization uses color to     help distinguish the overlapping relationship arcs.NetworkIn CDP Data Visualization, Network visuals can be used to represent many systems and     structures. The implementation is dynamic, with ongoing optimization adjustments that implement     a force layout based on the Barnes–Hut approximation. It also includes many manual setting     adjustments.DendrogramsCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Dendrogram visuals. Dendrograms are good     at expressing hierarchical relationships in data. As the name derivation suggests (Greek     'dendro' for 'tree' and 'gramma' for 'drawing'), dendrograms are tree diagrams.TreemapCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Treemap visuals. Treemaps display     hierarchical data as a set of nested rectangles. Each 'branch' of the tree is a rectangle that     corresponds to a particular dimension, with smaller rectangles that represent secondary     dimensions. All rectangle areas are proportional to the aggregate measure that corresponds to     the dimension.Correlation heatmapCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Correlation Heatmap visuals. Correlation     Heatmaps use colored cells, typically in a monochromatic scale, to show a 2D correlation matrix     (table) between two discrete dimensions or event types. The values of the first dimensions     appear as rows of the table, while the values of the second dimension are represented by the     columns of the table. The color value of the cells is proportional to the number of measurements     that match the dimensional values. This enables you to quickly identify incidence patterns, and     to recognize anomalies.Correlation flowCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Correlation Flow visuals. Correlation     Flows enable quick visual analysis of co-occurrence of two or more distinct dimensions. In     simple form, a Correlation Flow visual is a linear representations of a two-dimensional     Correlation Heatmap matrix. Where a Correlation Heatmap represents correlation values through     color intensity, the Correlation Flow plots thicker lines and taller dimension boxes to     represent greater correlation.Calendar heatmapsCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Calendar Heatmap visuals. A Calendar         Heatmap uses colored cells, typically in a monochromatic scale, to show relative number of         events for each day in a calendar view. Days are arranged into columns by week and grouped         by month and years. This enables you to quickly identify daily and weekly patterns, and to         recognize anomalies.MapsCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Map visuals.Interactive mapsAn interactive map paints geographic details over a basic map tile layer provided by a     third-party provider. CDP Data Visualization offers several overlay layers for data display. It     is an excellent choice for displaying large amounts of geo-based information in relevant     detail.SparklinesCDP Data Visualization enables you to create Sparklines visuals. A Sparklines     chart shows the general shape of the variation in measurement (usually over time) in a simple,     condensed, and memorable manner. Sparklines are small and succinct, and can be easily located     with the text where they are discussed. You can contrast Sparklines with typical X/Y charts that     are designed to show as much data as possible.ActionCDP Data Visualization enables you to include interactive, actionable elements in your     dashboards and applications. You can use the Action visual to provide access to external sources     of information or to internal search within your dataset.SearchThe purpose of the Search visual is to include search functionality in embedded     dashboards. It enables you to place a data search button directly on the dashboard.TimelineCDP Data Visualization allows you to create Timeline visuals. Timelines are graphical     representations of activities/events displayed against time.External link visualsCDP Data Visualization enables you to create External Link visuals.HistogramsYou can create Histogram visuals in CDP Data Visualization. Histograms enable the         quick visual analysis of numerical data distribution. They provide an estimate of the         frequency distribution of a continuous quantitative variable, accomplished by splitting it         into consecutive, non-overlapping intervals, referred to as "buckets".ExtensionsIn Cloudera Data Visualization, you can use extension visuals to add supporting     textual, image, or behavioral aspects to your dashboard.Rich textsCloudera Data Visualization enables you to create Rich Text visuals.Field statisticsCloudera Data Visualization enables you to create Field statistics visuals.         Field statistics visuals describe the dataset in statistical terms. They work across all         data connections, and on datasets that contain table joins.SQL queriesIn Cloudera Data Visualization, SQL query visuals enable you to process SQL language     queries using an enhanced visual editor for SQL authoring, including autocomplete.