BarsCloudera Docs
Bars
In CDP Data Visualization, bar charts use either vertical or horizontal bars to show
    comparisons among categories. One axis shows specific categories (typically, dimensions), while
    the other axis represents discrete values (measures).

Bar charts are good for avoiding clutter when data labels are long, or when comparing a
        large number of items, typically more than ten. Bar charts can also display negative
        numbers.noteThis visual type supports smooth rendering of streaming data.
The following steps demonstrate how to create a new Bars visual on the World Life
          Expectancy dataset.
For more information, see Adding data and Creating datasets. For
        an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for bars
        visuals.


Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset. For instructions,
          see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Bars.




The shelves of the visual changed. They are now X Axis,
              Y Axis, Colors,
              Tooltips, Drill,
              Labels, and Filters.
The mandatory shelves are X Axis and Y
              Axis. Note also that the fields placed on these two shelves may be easily
            swapped by switching X and Y.





 Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions,
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select country and drag
              it to the X Axis shelf .


Under Measures, select life_expectancy and
              drag it to the Y Axis shelf .


Change the aggregate of the life_expectancy field from
                sum(life_expectancy) to
              avg(life_expectancy):



Click the field on the shelf of the visual to open the FIELD
                      PROPERTIES menu.


Open the Aggregates menu and select
                      Average from the list of aggregate functions.





Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                      PROPERTIES menu to close it.
The shelf now contains the modified field with avg()
                    aggregation function.









 Alias the country field as Country, and the
            life_expectancy field as Life Expectancy:  



Click the field on the shelf of the visual to open the FIELD
                  PROPERTIES menu.


Open the Alias menu and enter the alias name of column in
                the textbox as it should appear in the visual.


Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                  PROPERTIES menu to close it.
Note that the shelf now shows the column with its alias name.




 Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The Bars visual appears.





 To see the bars as different colors, you can place a dimension to the
            Colors shelf.

Drag the un_region field to the Colors shelf
            and click REFRESH VISUAL to see the changes.





To group all countries of UN Regions together, change the order for the
            un_region field on the Colors shelf: 



Click the field on the shelf of the visual to open the FIELD
                  PROPERTIES menu.


Open the Order and Top K menu and select
                  Ascending from the list of options.








Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                  PROPERTIES menu to close it.




Click REFRESH VISUAL to see changes.






On the Filters shelf, add several
            Dimensions and Measures from the
            DATA menu.

This enables you to dynamically control the data input, and discover the data at a more
            granular level.
For example, from Dimensions, drag country,
              un_subregion, un_region, and year
            onto the Filters shelf. The filter selection wizard appears each
            time you place a field on a Filters shelf. You can specify filter
            values at this time, or click CANCEL and select them later.


 Change the title to 'World Population - Bars'.



Click (pencil) icon next to the title of the visualization
                to edit it and enter the new name.


[Optional] Click (pencil) icon below the title of the
                visualization to add a brief description of the visual.




At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
             SAVE.

At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            CLOSE.


After learning how to create a basic bar chart, you can explore the following additional
        uses.

Related informationChanging the min/max of the aggregate scaleFiltering 1: Bar chart by yearWhen working with a very large set of data, it is necessary to quickly access and     examine a specific subset of information. Cloudera Data Visualization gives you the ability to     filter information on all fields of the dataset.Filtering 2: bar chart by regionWhen working with a very large set of data, it is necessary to quickly access and     examine a specific subset of information. Cloudera Data Visualization gives you the ability to     filter information on all fields of the dataset.Horizontal barsIn general, dimensions of the dataset represent categories that are placed on the     horizontal axis (and therefore the X shelf). The result set is rendered as a vertical bar chart.     If your business requirements include the use of a horizontal bar chart, Clouodera Data     Visualization makes it very easy to switch from an existing vertical bar chart to a horizontal     one.Stacked barsWhile bar charts show comparisons among categories, Cloudera Data Visualization stacked     bar charts show the bars divided into sub-parts. This demonstrates the cumulative effect of the     component parts of a particular category.Labelled barsIn Cloudera Data Visualization, you can use the Labels shelf to display the measurement     value. This way you can improve the comparison of relative measures on Bar visuals.Shelves for barsOverview of shelves for Cloudera Data Visualization Bars visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog