HistogramsCloudera DocsHistograms
You can create Histogram visuals in CDP Data Visualization. Histograms enable the
        quick visual analysis of numerical data distribution. They provide an estimate of the
        frequency distribution of a continuous quantitative variable, accomplished by splitting it
        into consecutive, non-overlapping intervals, referred to as "buckets".

noteHistograms can only be plotted for bare metrics, not aggregates. For
                example, you can plot a histogram for population, not for
                    avg(population).
To work around this limitation, first save the calculated metric as derived data, and
                then use this field as a measure in a histogram. See Derived data.
When you change the number of buckets (the default is 10), CDP Data Visualization
                determines the data range and splits it equally among the buckets, groups the metric
                into these buckets, and plots vertical bars to represent it.
Histograms support both normalized and cumulative forms, and may be
                used in a trellis formation.
The following steps demonstrate how to create a new histogram visual on the World
                    Life Expectancy dataset.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for
                    histograms.

Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, select
                        Histogram.


The shelves of the visual changed. You can see:
                        Measure (mandatory), X
                    Trellis, Y Trellis, and
                        Filters.



To show specific items, populate the shelves from the available fields
                        (X Trellis, Y Trellis) in the
                        DATA menu.

Under Measures, select population and
                        drag it to the Measures shelf.





Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The default histogram visual appears, dividing the data into 10 buckets. As
                        you can see, most the data is in the first bucket, and this visual is not
                        very enlightening.





On the Filters shelf, add several
                        Dimensions and Measures from
                    the DATA menu.
This enables you to dynamically control the data input and discover the data
                    at a more granular level.For example, from Dimensions,
                        drag year to the Filters shelf and
                        select the year 2010.You can also add
                            un_region to the Filters shelf
                        and select Africa.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The shape of the diagram has changed. Hovering the mouse over the histogram
                        shows the data ranges and frequency for each bucket of the histogram.
You can see that the filtering options significantly reduced result set.





 Change the title to World Population - Histogram.
[Optional] You can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle
                    below the title of the visualization.

Click SAVE at the top left corner of the
                        Dashboard Designer.
Specifying the bucket countThe default number of histogram buckets is 10, but you can easily change     this.Normalizing the histogramThe default vertical axis of a histogram represents the count of values that map to a     particular bucket. To report the histogram as a percentage of a whole, the histogram count is     normalized to add up to 1, and then the bars represent the proportionate frequency.Using the cumulative optionBy default, the histogram reports each bucket individually. The cumulative option adds     each bucket's count or frequency to the running total, so that the right-most bucket reports the     total count or 1 (100%), depending on whether the normalized histogram option is active. You can     turn on the cumulative option on a histogram.Shelves for histogramsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Histogram visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog