Canadian province map, bubblesCloudera DocsCanadian province map, bubbles
CDP Data Visualization Map visuals enable you to show measurements, as bubbles, over a
    map of Canadian Provinces and Territories. Bubble maps display up to two measurements
    simultaneously: as the color of the bubble, and as the relative size of the bubble.

A map of Canada shows a comparison of measurement values among Canadian Provinces and
        Territories. The following steps demonstrate how to create a new choropleth map of Canada.
        This example uses the Canadian Census dataset, constructed from the
          canada_census_population_dwellings.csv and
          ca-postal-codes.csvfiles, and joined of the fields fsa
        and Postal Code, respectively. For more information, see Canadian
          census,  Adding data, and Creating datasets.
tipRemember that to map province information, the dimension must be recognized
        as a Geo Type. See Specifying geographic fields.

Start a new visual based on the Canadian Census dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Geo,
            Color, Size, Drill,
            Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for
          map visuals is Geo.



 Populate the shelves from the DATA menu: 


Under Dimensions, select Province from the
              table ca_postal_codes, and add it to the Geo
              shelf.


Under Measures, select Population 2011 from
              table canada_census_population_dwellings, and add it to the
                Measures shelf.



Specify the use of Canada Map View in the Settings > Map interface.
For instructions, see Map view.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.

Change the display of marks to bubbles as described in Displaying bubbles on
            maps.

Change the mark size range to 1-30 as described in Changing the mark size
            range.
Optional: 
You can change or simply reverse the color palette to suit your needs.
For instructions, see Change color palette of visuals and Reverse
            color palette of visuals.
Optional: 
Alias the fields as necessary.
For instructions, see Alias.
Optional: 
Enable panning and zooming option, as described in Customizing zoom.
Optional: 
Change the color palette, as described in Change color palette of
          visuals.

Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'Canadian 2011 Population - Province Bubbles'.
            You can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Your visual should look something like this:

Parent topic: Maps