Shelves for KPIsCloudera Docs
Shelves for KPIs
Overview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization KPI visuals.
A KPI visual has the following shelves:

Dimensions

Add a Dimension field from the DATA menu
            to display a specific dimension value.
This shelf accepts multiple fields, but the visual displays only the first dimension or
            measure. Some additional information about the shelf:

If something is placed on this shelf while the Measure shelf
              is blank, the visual displays the first value in the dimension as the main
              indicator.
If you order this shelf, it displays the first value based on the order
              parameters.
If you want to display a dimension sorted by another dimension, place a second
              dimension on the shelf and sort by it. The visual displays only the first dimension
              value on the dimension shelf, but the sorted specification on the second dimension
              determines the order.
If you want to display a measure value sorted by a dimension (or a dimension sorted
              by a measure), place the fields on the matching shelves, and sort according to your
              business case.

For more information, see Displaying first measure as main indicator.

Measure

Add a Measure field from the DATA menu to
            display an aggregate.
This shelf accepts a single field.
The measure shelf either provides the main indicator, or it can be used for sorting. If
            a measure is used, the display format on this shelf dictates the appearance of the main
            indicator.

Compare To

Add a Measure field from the DATA menu to
            show a comparison aggregate as a target value.
This shelf accepts a single field.
If the Dimensions/Measure and Compare To
            shelves hold numeric values, this shelf specifies both the small value to the right side
            of the main measure (default placement), and an arrow.
Some additional information about the arrow:

If the primary measure indicator is higher than the Compare
                To value, the arrow points up and it has the color specified for the up
              arrow in the color settings of the visual.
If the compare value is higher, than the arrow points down, in the color specified
              for the down arrow in the color settings of the visual.
If the two values are identical, the arrow is 'flat'. It means that it is horizontal
              and points to the right.




It is possible to switch the comparison direction by flipping the
              comparison setting.

Label

Add one field to this optional shelf to provide a label under the main indicator
            (default placement). You can change label position.
This shelf accepts 0 or 1 fields.

Tooltips

Add Measure fields from the DATA menu for
            additional information in the graph's Tooltip.
This shelf accepts multiple fields.

X Trellis

Use fields from the DATA menu to trellis the visual into
            columns.
This shelf accepts multiple fields.

Y Trellis

Use fields from the DATA menu to trellis the visual into
            rows.
This shelf accepts multiple fields.

Filters

Add Dimension or Measure fields from the
              DATA menu to include or exclude categorical or value
            criteria.
This shelf accepts multiple fields.



Parent topic: KPI