Cross tabulationCloudera Docs
Cross tabulation
Cross Tabulation visual is a tool that allows you to compare the relationship between
    two variables in table format. Cloudera Data Visualization enhances the understanding of
    relative value size by assigning more saturated colors to the table fields with larger
    values.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new Cross Tabulation visual on the
          World Life Expectancy dataset. For an overview of shelves that specify this visual,
        see Shelves for cross tabulation.

Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, find and click Cross
            Tabulation.




The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Column,
              Row, Measures,
              Tooltips, and Filters. The
              Measures shelf is mandatory.




 To show specific items, populate the shelves from the available fields in
          the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select 'country' and drag it to the
                Column shelf.
Under Dimensions, select 'year' and drag it to the
                Row shelf.
Under Measures, select 'life_expectancy' and drag it to the
                Measures shelf.By default, the sum aggregate of the field
                appears on the shelf, as 'sum(life_expectancy)'.

 Change the aggregate of the 'life_expectancy' field from
          'sum(life_expectancy)' to 'avg(life_expectancy)'.


On the Measures shelf of
              the visual, click the caret-right icon to the right of the
              field.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, click the
                caret-right icon next to Aggregates to
              open a drop-down menu..
From the list of aggregate functions, select Average.


Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.

The shelf now contains the modified field with the 'avg()' aggregation function.
Alternatively, you can change the aggregation at the level of the dataset, as described
            in Changing field aggregation.
 Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The updated Cross Tabulation visual appears. It shows life expectancy information for
            each row of the dataset. By default, Cross Tabulation visuals show smaller values in
            light colored cells, and larger values in darker colored cells.



Optional:  On the Filters shelf, you can
          add several Dimensions and Measures from the
            DATA menu.

This enables you to dynamically control the data input, and discover the data at a more
            granular level.


For example, from Dimensions, drag 'un_subregion' to the
                  Filters shelf. noteThe filter selection wizard appears
                  each time you add a field to the Filters shelf. You can
                  specify filter values at this time, or click CANCEL and
                  select them later.In this example, the filter value is set to 'Middle
                Africa'.


 To limit the time interval, add the 'year' field to the
                  Filters shelf.
In the Filter for year modal window, click the
                  Range tab, select the last 30 years of the dataset, 1981
                through 2010, and lick APPLY.


Optional: To improve the appearance of the visual, alias the
          'country' field as 'Country' and the 'life_expectancy' field as 'Life Expectancy'.


On the shelf of the visual, click the
                caret-right icon to the right of the field.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, click the
                caret-right icon next to Alias.
In the text box below Alias, enter the alias name of the
              column, as it should appear in the visual.
Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.

The shelves now show the columns with their alias names.
Adjust the display format for the 'Life Expectancy' field to use a comma
          thousands separator, and to carry zero decimal places.


On the Measures shelf of the
              visual, click the caret-right icon to the right of the
              field.
In the FIELD PROPERTIES menu, click Display
                Format.
In the Display Format modal window, select the
                Category 'Real Number'.
In the Decimal Places text box, set '0'.
Select the Use 1000 separator option, and click
                SAVE.
Click x icon at the top of the
                FIELD PROPERTIES menu to close it.

Optional:  To provide more detailed information, add some fields
          to the Tooltips shelf.

For example, drag the Dimensions 'un_region' and 'un_subregion',
            and the Measures 'population' and 'gdp_per_capita' to the
              Tooltips shelf.
 Click REFRESH VISUAL. 




The updated Cross Tabulation visual appears. It demonstrates the relative size of
            populations by assigning a progressively more saturated color to represent increasingly
            larger values.



 Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'World Life Expectancy - Cross Tabulation'.
            You can also  add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.

At the top left corner of the Visual Builder, click
            SAVE.
Related informationShelves for cross tabulationCreating a visualChanging field aggregationDisplaying totals with data expansionWhen performing granular data analysis in Cross Tabulation visuals, Cloudera Data         Visualization enables you to display both subtotals and combined total. These summations         operate on the dimensions in the Row shelf. When you enable expansion, you can expand rows         to view details of some of the dimensions.Shelves for cross tabulationOverview of shelves for Cloudera Data Visualization Cross Tabulation     visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog