Adding size to scatter visualsCloudera DocsAdding size to scatter visuals
In Scatter visuals, you can control the size of the individual bubbles to show
    variation of a measure more clearly.

The World Life Expectancy dataset has several other dimensions and measurements that
        you can use to enrich the scatter visual. Consider how using the Size
        shelf, which controls the size of the individual bubbles, changes our immediate
        understanding of the dataset and represents the relative population size of each country
        more clearly.
The starting point of the following example is the 'World Population - Scatter' visual
        developed in Creating basic scatter visuals.

Click Clone to create a new visual that has the same properties
          as the original.






Under Measures, select population and drag it
          to the Size shelf.

On the sum(population) field, click the (right
            arrow) icon to open the FIELD PROPERTIES menu.

Expand Aggregates and select
          Average.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The Scatter visual appears with its own visible population size 'outliers': China,
          India, and the United States.


Optional: 
It is important to realize that the relative size of the bubbles is not linearly
          proportional to their values.

At the lower range of population levels, the visual shows the same size marks for
            countries with very different average populations, such as Tokelau, where
              avg(population)=1.23K, Greenland, with
              avg(population)=34.5K, Luxembourg, with
              avg(population)=318K, and Kuwait, with
              avg(population)=751K. This is because by default, the size of marks
            ranges from 10 to 50 pixels. Divided equally across the range of values, this squeezes
            too many disparate measurements on the lower end to use the same mark size 'bucket'.
Figure 1. World Population Figures with Mark Size Range of 10 - 50 Pixels


It is easy to somewhat alleviate this problem by changing the range of sizes of the
            bubbles, as described in Changing the mark size range. This graph shows the
            size range of 1-50.
Figure 2. World Population Figures with Mark Size Range of 1 - 50 Pixels


Incidentally, and obviously, the increased size range generates a more realistic
            representation of relative population size.


 Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'World Population - Scatter with Size'. You
            can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
While you can see the average data for individual countries more clearly, these measurements do
        not help you to see the changes that occurred over the entire time domain of the
        dataset.As a next step, look at how you can add the concept of time back into the visual by animating the
        scatter plot, as described in Adding transition animation to scatters.
Parent topic: Scatter