Lines with dual axesCloudera DocsLines with dual axes
It is often enlightening to see related dimensions on the same line chart. It clearly
    shows both correlation and pattern. However, values may be measuring completely different
    things, or the range of values (scale) is too different to show both lines clearly. CDP Data
      Visualization offers a dual axis option for situations like these.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a Lines visual that uses a double axis. The
        example is based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.

Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, select the Lines
          visual type.

Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions,
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select year and place it
              on the X Axis shelf. Specify ascending order and alias the
              field as 'Year'.


Under Measures, select life_expectancy and
              place it on the Y Axis shelf, and add an alias to the
              field.


Under Measures, select Population and place
              it on the Colors shelf, and add an alias to the field.



 Click REFRESH VISAL.

The Lines visual appears. You can see the linear plot of population and life
            expectancy, on the same axis.
It is impossible to see the values on the life expectancy line because the population
            line sets the scale for the Y axis.
In this case, the label does not correspond to the scale shown, because this
            information comes from the Y axis shelf.





On the Colors shelf, click the sum(population)
          field to open the FIELD PROPERTIES menu.

Select Axis > Secondary Axis.






Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The two lines can now be seen clearly. There is a vertical axis both on the left and
            the right side of the visual. The linear plot of population and life expectancy are
            visible each on its own axis.
For convenience, the colors of the axis labels match the line.




Save the visual as World Population - Dual Lines.Compare this approach with plotting multiple measures as trellised charts described in
          Trellis on measures.Parent topic: Lines