Correlation flowCloudera DocsCorrelation flow
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Correlation Flow visuals. Correlation
    Flows enable quick visual analysis of co-occurrence of two or more distinct dimensions. In
    simple form, a Correlation Flow visual is a linear representations of a two-dimensional
    Correlation Heatmap matrix. Where a Correlation Heatmap represents correlation values through
    color intensity, the Correlation Flow plots thicker lines and taller dimension boxes to
    represent greater correlation.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new Correlation Flow visual on the
          Customer Value Analysis dataset. This dataset is based on data previously imported
        into CDP Data Visualization from the customer-value-analysis.csv
        datafile.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for correlation
          flows.
noteCorrelation flow is not limited to two dimensions. You can model a
        large number of correlation 'dimensions'. Ordering of the dimensions on the shelves of the
        visual provides different insights into the dataset.

Start a new visual based on the Customer Value Analysis dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click Correlation
            Flow.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Dimensions,
            Measures, Tooltips, and
            Filters. Both Dimensions and
            Measures are mandatory.



Populate the shelves from the available fields:


Under Dimensions, select Vehicle Class and
              drag it to the Dimension shelf.


Repeat it for Vehicle Size, Employment Status,
                Policy Type, and Policy.


Under Measures, select Record Count and
              drag it to the Measures shelf.



Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The correlation flow visual appears.Figure 1. Correlation Flow Visual

You can see that each distinct line segment between two dimensional events reports
          its own correlation data, as demonstrated by the Tooltips in the following chart. 
Tooltip 1 demonstrates the correlation between
                Four-Door and Medsize vehicles. The dataset has 3,237 Four-Door cars,
              and they represent 36% of the total. Additionally, 70% of these cars are considered
              Medsize. Viewing this from the other direction of the correlation relationship, 50% of
              all Medsize cars are four-door cars.
Tooltip 2 demonstrates the correlation between Medsize
              vehicles and Unemployed owners. It shows that 1,597 people are in both
              categories, and this segment represents 17% of all records. 25% of Medsize cars are
              owned by people who are unemployed, while 69% of unemployed people own a medsize
              vehicle.
Tooltip 3 demonstrates the correlation between
                Employed owners and the ones who have a Corporate Auto vehicle policy.
              It shows that 1,238 people are in these two categories, which is 14% of the total. 22%
              of employed owners have a corporate auto policy, while 63% of people with a corporate
              auto policy are actively employed.
Figure 2. Correlation Flow Visual



Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'Customer Value Analysis - Correlation Flow'.
            You can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Shelves for correlation flowsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Correlation Flow visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog