Using the trellis option with independent scaleCloudera DocsUsing the trellis option with independent scale
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create a new trellised Areas visual with
        independent aggregate axes.


Create the World Population - Area visual as described in
                        Areas.
Create the World Population - Area Trellis as described in Enabling
                        the trellis option.



Trellis charts are very powerful visualization tools. However, they do not work well
                when one chart contains values that are several orders of magnitude larger than in
                the other charts. The charts that represent segments with smaller values are very
                difficult to interpret. You can mitigate this problem by enabling independent
                axis.
This example uses the visual World Population - Area Trellis from
                    Enabling the trellis option, to create trellis charts with
                independent scale.
The following steps show you how to create a new trellised area chart with
                independent aggregate axes on the World Life Expectancy dataset.

Open the World Population - Area Trellis visual in Edit
                    mode.

Clone the visual as described in Cloning a visual.

While the chart for Asia shows clear growth, the one of Oceania does not show
                        any color. This is because by default, trellis charts are generated to the
                        same scale. You should set Oceania to its own scale to be visible.
CDP Data Visualization provides an override to this default setting. You have
                        an option to set the trellis charts to their own axes by customizing the
                        axes, and selecting Independent Aggregate Scale
                        option, as described in Customizing axes.


Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The updated trellised area chart appears.





Click the (pencil) icon next to the title of the
                    visualization to edit it, and change the title to World Population -
                        Area Trellis, Independent Axes.

At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
                         SAVE.
Parent topic: Areas