Calendar heatmapsCloudera DocsCalendar heatmaps
CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Calendar Heatmap visuals. A Calendar
        Heatmap uses colored cells, typically in a monochromatic scale, to show relative number of
        events for each day in a calendar view. Days are arranged into columns by week and grouped
        by month and years. This enables you to quickly identify daily and weekly patterns, and to
        recognize anomalies.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new calendar visual on the SFPD
                    Incidents dataset, based on data previously imported into CDP Data
                Visualization from the sfpd_incidents.csv.zip datafile.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for calendar
                    heat maps.
noteThis visual type supports smooth rendering of
                streaming data.

Start a new visual based on the SFPD Incidents dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

Select Calendar Heatmap in the
                        VISUALS menu.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now
                        Date (mandatory), Measures
                    (mandatory), Tooltips, X Trellis,
                        Y Trellis, and Filters.



To show specific items, populate the shelves from the available fields
                        (Dimensions, Measures) in the
                        DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select date
                            and drag it to the Date shelf.


Under Measures, select Record
                                Count and drag it to the Measures
                            shelf.

noteRecord Count is defined as
                                a sum of events. If you hover over it with your
                                mouse, you can see a black detail bubble with
                                    sum(1) contents.









The field on the Date shelf should have a calendar icon
                    to indicate that it is in the Date/Time category of data types. If the field is
                    not automatically recognized as a date data type, convert it.
On the Date shelf of the visual, click the
                        date field, select Date/Time Function > Date.




Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The default calendar heat map visual appears.



Change the title of the visual to SFPD Incidents - Calendar Heat
                    Map.

Click SAVE at the top left corner of the
                        Dashboard Designer.

Shelves for calendar heatmapsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Calendar Heatmap visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog