Choropleth interactive mapsCloudera Docs
Choropleth interactive maps
In an Interactive Map visual, CDP Data Visualization enables you to create
            choropleth maps. A choropleth map shows geographical areas that are shaded in proportion
            to the value of the measurement that is displayed on the map.

tipConsider the following when building choropleth maps: 
Use choropleth maps when your data is attached to enumeration
                                    units, such as counties, countries or zip codes.
Standardize data to show rates and ratios instead of raw data
                                    counts. For example, instead of plotting gross GDP, plot GDP per
                                    capita.
Use choropleth maps when you have data with continuous statistical
                                    surface. For example, Population is a count and
                                    representing it in colored map may be misleading. Population
                                          density is a ratio with a continuous statistical
                                    surface (even where 0 represents unpopulated
                                    areas); so it can be used in choropleth maps.

In this example, you will create a choropleth map that colors the average tax
                        liability in California by zip code. The choropleth Interactive Map visual
                        is based on the Personal Income Tax Statistics by Zip Code dataset.
                        For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for
                              interactive maps.


To create a choropleth map, you must specify the following for each visual:

Custom mapbox style, which has a choropleth shape
                              file in it. For more information, see Adding a custom mapbox
                                    style.
Layer ID, which is the name of a unique layer
                              within the Custom Mapbox style that identifies
                              the shapes that you would like to color by a measure in your data. For
                              more information, see Specifying a choropleth layeer
                              ID.
Geo-type as Shape ID: The dataset must
                              have at least one field in the Geo shelf to
                              determine the location on the map. You must change the Geo-type to
                                    Shape ID. A Shape
                                    ID is a key that joins the shapes in the
                                    Custom mapbox style and the field in the
                              Data Visualization dataset. This helps in identifying the measure that
                              maps to the shape. This Geo field must be in the dataset that was used
                              to create the custom mapbox style.



Start a new visual based on the National Geographic Features
                              dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
                                    Interactive Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now
                                    Geo, Measure,
                                    Colors, Tooltips,
                              and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for map
                              visuals is Geo.



Populate the shelves from the available fields in
                                    Dimensions and
                                    Measures in the
                                    DATA menu.

noteTo create a choropleth map, the dataset
                                    must have at least one field in the Geo
                                    shelf with Geo-type Shape ID.



Select the zip_code field and drag it to
                                          the Geo shelf to identify the
                                          shapes by zip code.


Cast this to the appropriate Geo Type: click the field on
                                          the shelf, and in the Field
                                                Properties menu, select
                                                Change Type, and select
                                                Shape ID. This helps in
                                          identifying the measure that maps to the shape.







Under Measures, select the
                                                avg(total_tax_liability) field, and
                                          drag it to the Colors shelf.


Change the aggregation from
                                                total_tax_liability, by selecting
                                                Aggregates Average
This colors the average tax liability in California by zip
                                          code.



Navigate to the Map Style menu under
                                    Settings, and enter a Custom
                                    mapbox style that you have obtained from Mapbox.
                              Make sure that this style has a choropleth shape file in it.






Navigate to the Choropleth menu under
                                    Settings, and enter a Layer
                                    ID.
Choropleth Layer ID identifies the shapes that
                              you would like to color by a measure in your data.



Click REFRESH VISUAL. 


The choropleth map visual appears. 

If the visual does not display a choropleth map, check that the
                              Geo-type of the zip_code field is set to
                                    Shape ID. 







Proceed to Customizing the choropleth map.

Parent topic: Interactive maps