Segmenting data qualitatively in interactive mapsCloudera Docs
Segmenting data qualitatively in interactive maps
CDP Data Visualization enables you to plot qualitative ranges of data by specifying the
    data segmentation on the Color shelf of an Interactive Map visual.

The following steps demonstrate how to plot incident counts on an Interactive Map. Truck
        movement data is used in the example.


Select the appropriate dataset, and create a new dashboard.

In the dashboard, open the default visual and change the visual type to
            Interactive Map.

Enable Circles, as described in Displaying circles.


Click the Settings menu.


Select Circles > Enable Circles.



Enable both the area and color legends of Circles by selecting the
            Add Circles Area Legend and Add Circles Color
            Legend options.
Optional: 
Disable all the other layers: heatmap, cluster, marker, and route.

Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions and
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Geo Shelf - Under Measures, select
                latitude and longitude, and add them to the
                Geo shelf.
If your longitude and latitude measurements are not automatically recognized
              (appear with a (globe) icon on the Geo
              shelf), cast them to the appropriate Geo Type. 
Click the field on the shelf to open the FIELD PROPERTIES
                  menu.
Select Change Type and  choose
                    Latitude or Longitude as
                  appropriate.
For more information, see Change type and Geo data
              type.


Measures Shelf - Under Measures,
              select eventtype and place it on the measures shelf.


Change the aggregation function to count().
Alias the field as # Incidents.




Colors Shelf - Under Measures, select
                eventtype and place it on the Colors
              shelf.


Click the field on the shelf, to open the FIELD
                    PROPERTIES menu.
Select the [] Enter/Edit Expression option.
Change the field expression to split the data into two qualitative ranges,
                    High and
                  Low:case when count([eventtype]) > 20 then 'High' else 'Low (20 or less)' end

Change the field Alias to # Lane Departures.





Filters Shelf - Add the field eventtype to
              this shelf, and select the single value 'Lane Departures'.

[Optional] Add the field drivername to the filters shelf, and
                select a small number of drivers to see details.



Optional: 
Change the color palette to ensure that the colors are distinct: Click
            Colors, and select an appropriate palette.
In this example, because the data is divided into two distinct groups, a two-color
          palette is chosen.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.


 The visual is displayed.



Change the title of the visual, and SAVE it.


Parent topic: Interactive maps