LinesCloudera DocsLines
In CDP Data Visualization, a line chart displays information as a series of data
    points, or markers, connected by straight line segments. It reveals trends or change over time.
    Line charts show relationships within a continuous data set, and can be applied to a wide
    variety of categories. While line charts are similar to scatter plots, the line chart orders the
    measurements along the primary axis and it is often used to visualize a time series.

note
This visual type supports smooth rendering of streaming data.

The following steps demonstrate how to create a new Lines visual on the World Life
          Expectancy dataset.
For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see Shelves for lines
          visuals. For customization options, see Settings for lines
        visuals.

Start a new visual based on dataset World Life Expectancy.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

 In the VISUALS menu, find and click
            Lines.




The shelves of the visual changed. The mandatory shelves are X
              Axis and Y Axis. 



The fields placed on these two shelves may be easily swapped by switching
              X and Y.


 Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions,
            Measures) in the DATA menu.

Under Dimensions, select year and drag it
            to the X Axis shelf .
Click the Y Axis shelf and select the
              life_expectancy field from the DATA menu by
            clicking it. This adds the field to the shelf.


Click the field on the X Axis shelf, and in the FIELD
            PROPERTIES menu, select Order and Top K > Ascending.

 If the field on the Y Axis appears as a sum aggregate, change
          the aggregate to avg(life_expectancy):


Click the field on the Y Axis shelf to open the
                FIELD PROPERTIES menu.


Select Aggregates > Average.







Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.



The shelf now contains the modified field with avg() aggregation
            function.
Alternatively, you can change the aggregation at the level of the dataset, as described
            in Changing field aggregtion.


 Click REFRESH VISUAL.
 The Lines visual appears.



 Alias the year field as Year, and the
            life_expectancy field as Life Expectancy:


Click the field to open the FIELD PROPERTIES menu.


Select Alias and enter the alias name of the column in the
              text box as it should appear in the visual.


Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.



The shelf now shows the column with its alias name.

Optional: 
To see the individual countries in different colors, place the country
          field on the Colors shelf.
To make the visual easier to understand, you can apply an Alias to
          it.

Click REFRESH VISUAL again.

The single line is broken out into country components, and CDP Data Visualization
            automatically provides a color legend. 




Optional: 
On the Tooltips shelf, add several fields from
            Dimensions and Measures.
This enables you to see specific descriptive information in your visuals, such as
          input values, segment affiliation, and calculations.

On the Filters shelf, add several
            Dimensions and Measures from the
            DATA menu.

This enables you to dynamically control the data input and discover the data at a more
            granular level.
For example, from Dimensions, drag country,
              un_subregion, un_region, year, and
              population onto the Filters shelf.


 On the Filters shelf:


Click the population field to open the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu.


Select []Enter/Edit Expression.


Enter [population]>10000000.


Click VALIDATE & SAVE.



 Click REFRESH VISUAL. 

The updated Lines visual appears. Some of the lines do not originate at the beginning
            of the time series. This is because their population were lower than the
              10,000,000 threshold that you set in the population filter.




To limit the dimensions available to the Drill Into feature (it appears on dashboards that
          include the visual), specify the fields that can remain visible by placing them on the
            Drill shelf.
Click the (pencil ) icon next to the title of the visual to
          change the title to 'World Population - Lines'.

At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Related informationChanging the min/max of the aggregate scaleLines with dual axesIt is often enlightening to see related dimensions on the same line chart. It clearly     shows both correlation and pattern. However, values may be measuring completely different     things, or the range of values (scale) is too different to show both lines clearly. CDP Data       Visualization offers a dual axis option for situations like these.Shelves for linesOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Line visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog