Latitude and longitude map with bubblesCloudera DocsLatitude and longitude map with bubbles
CDP Data Visualization Map visuals support measurement plots over a geographic map,
    based on latitude and longitude. Bubble maps display up to two measurements simultaneously: as
    the color of the bubble, and as the relative size of the bubble.

A geographic coordinate map of the United States, based on degrees of
          latitude and longitude, shows a comparison of
        measurement values across US States. The following steps extend the work completed in
          US zipcode map with bubbles, and demonstrate how to create a map visual on
        the Income Tax Returns dataset. It produces maps with bubble marks that correspond to
        the relative size of the measurement at each latitude and
          longitude pair.
Before starting this exercise, supplement the Income Tax Returns dataset by adding
        data from zipcode-lat-long.csv into your database, and making a simple
        joins between zip_tax_returns_2016.zipcode and
          zipcode_lat_long.zipcode. For instructions, see Data model:
          joins.

Clone the Income Tax Returns - Zipcode visual.

Change the fields on the shelves:


Remove all the fields from the  Filters shelf.


Remove the field Zipcode from the Geo
              shelf.


In the DATA menu, enter the term 'latitude' in the
                Search box, and add the Latitude field to
              the Geo shelf.


Search for term 'longitude', and add the Longitude field to the
                Geo shelf.



Open the Settings menu, expand the Map
          menu, and select the United Sates
Map View option.
For more information, see Map view.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.
The map visual appears. You can move the visual (pan), zoom in and out, and see the
          details in the Tooltips text.



Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'Income Tax Returns - Lat and Long'. You can
            also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the title of the
            visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.
Parent topic: Maps