AreasCloudera DocsAreas
In CDP Data Visualization, Areas visuals are a good choice for representing related
    values over time because they emphasize the relative proportions of totals or percentage
    relationships. With volume stacked beneath the line, the chart clearly demonstrates both the
    total of the fields and their relative size.

noteThis visual type supports smooth rendering of
        streaming data.
The following steps demonstrate how to create a new Areas visual on the World Life
          Expectancy dataset. For an overview of shelves that specify this visual, see
          Shelves for areas.

Start a new visual based on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Areas.




The shelves of the visual changed. The mandatory shelves are X
              Axis and Y Axis. The fields placed on these two
            shelves may be easily swapped by switching X and
              Y. 


Populate the shelves from the available fields (Dimensions,
            Measures) in the DATA menu.


Under Dimensions, select year and drag it
              to the X shelf.


Under Measures, select population and drag
              it to the Y shelf.







Change the aggregate of the population field from
            sum(population) to avg(population):


Click the field to open the FIELD PROPERTIES menu.


Select Aggregates > Average.







Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.


Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The Areas visual appears.






 Alias the year field as Year, and the
            population field as Population:


Click the field to open the FIELD PROPERTIES menu.


Select Alias and enter the alias name of the column in the
              text box as it should appear in the visual.


Click the x icon at the top of the FIELD
                PROPERTIES menu to close it.


The shelf now shows the fields with their alias names.

To see the individual countries, select the country field from the
          list of Dimensions and drag it to the Colors
          shelf.
Optional: 
On the Tooltips shelf, add several fields from
            Dimensions and Measures.

This enables you to see specific descriptive information in your
            visuals, such as input values, segment affiliation, and calculations.
For example:



From Measures, drag gdp_per_capita and
                life_expectancy to the Tooltip shelf.


From Dimensions, drag country,
                un_subregion, and un_region to the
                Tooltip shelf.


For all items on the Tooltip shelf, click the
                (down arrow) icon and select Aggregates >  Remove Aggregate.


For all numeric items on the Y shelf and the
                Tooltip shelf, click the  (down arrow)
              icon, select Display Format, and enter
              ,.2f.

These fields are typically from the Measures menu. In this
                example include gdp_per_capita and
                life_expectancy.




On the Filters shelf, add several
            Dimensions and Measures from the
            DATA menu.

This enables you to dynamically control the data input and discover the data at a more
            granular level.
For example, from Dimensions, drag country,
              un_subregion, un_region, and year
            to the Filters shelf.


On the Filters shelf, click the (down arrow)
           icon on the un_region field.
Select Pick values from a list.
In the Pick values for un_region modal window, select
            Africa and click Save.






Click REFRESH VISUAL.

The updated Areas visual appears.





Click the  (pencil) icon next to the title of the visual to edit
          it, and change the title to World Population - Area.

At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.

Related informationChanging the min/max of the aggregate scaleUsing the trellis option with areasIn Areas visuals, CDP Data Visualization enables you to create Trellis charts that         show different partitions (segments) of the dataset alongside one other.Using the trellis option with independent scaleCDP Data Visualization enables you to create a new trellised Areas visual with         independent aggregate axes.Shelves for areasOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Areas visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog