Choropleth Canadian postal code mapCloudera DocsChoropleth Canadian postal code map
CDP Data Visualization Map  visuals support choropleth mapping of measurements over a
    map of Canadian FSA and Postal Codes.

A map of Canada shows a comparison of population density, at the level of the FSA (1st 3
        digits of the Postal Code).  The following steps demonstrate how to create a new choropleth
        map of Canada. This example uses the Canadian Census dataset, constructed from the
          canada_census_population_dwellings.csv and
          ca-postal-codes.csvfiles, and joined of the fields fsa
        and Postal Code, respectively. For more information, see Canadian
          census,  Adding data, and Creating datasets.
tipRemember that to map province information, the dimension must be recognized
        as a Geo Type. See Specifying geographic fields.

Start a new visual based on the Canadian Census dataset.
For instructions, see Creating a visual.

In the VISUALS menu, find and click
          Map.


The shelves of the visual changed. They are now Geo,
            Color, Size, Drill,
            Tooltips, X Trellis, Y
            Trellis, and Filters. The only mandatory shelf for
          map visuals is Geo.



Populate the shelves from the DATA menu: 


Under Dimensions, select Postal Code from
              the table ca_postal_codes, and add it to the
                Geo shelf.


Under Measures, select Population 2011 from
              table canada_census_population_dwellings, and add it to the
                Color shelf.



Specify the use of  Canada Map View in the Settings > Map  interface.
For instructions, see Map view.

Click REFRESH VISUAL.
Optional: 
Alias the fields as necessary.
For instructions, see Alias.
Optional: 
Enable panning and zooming option, as described in Customizing zoom.
Optional: 
Change the color palette, as described in Change color palette of
          visuals.

Click the pencil/edit icon next to the title of the
          visualization to enter a name for the visual.

In this example, the title is changed to 'Canadian 2011 Population - Postal Code
            Choropleth'. You can also add a brief description of the visual as a subtitle below the
            title of the visualization.


At the top left corner of the Dashboard Designer, click
            SAVE.


Your visual should look something like this:



Parent topic: Maps