Interactive mapsCloudera Docs
Interactive maps
An interactive map paints geographic details over a basic map tile layer provided by a
    third-party provider. CDP Data Visualization offers several overlay layers for data display. It
    is an excellent choice for displaying large amounts of geo-based information in relevant
    detail.

The base Map Servers include either Google Maps or Mapbox.
The overlay layers that display data include the Heatmap, Cluster,
          Circles, and Routes and pins options.

note

To use this feature, an Admin user must first specify, through the Site Settings
          interface, the API keys granted to your organization. This is described in Keys for
            interactive visuals.
This visual type supports zero, one, or two field aggregations on the measures shelf. If
          no measure is supplied, the map will paint with an assumed value of 1. With one measure,
          all options use that measure. With two measures, the Heatmap, Cluster and Routes &
          Pins use the first measure only, while the Circles display both measures.
Remember that to place information onto a map or interactive map visual, the records
          must contain geographical information, such as valid latitude and longitude pairs,
          zipcodes, states, and so on. To learn how to cast dataset fields into usable type, see
            Change type and Geo type.


To learn how to use the interactive maps in their various forms, read the following topics.
Basic interactive mapCDP Data Visualization enables you to create a basic Interactive Map     visual.Choropleth interactive mapsIn an Interactive Map visual, CDP Data Visualization enables you to create             choropleth maps. A choropleth map shows geographical areas that are shaded in proportion             to the value of the measurement that is displayed on the map.Interactive map with multiple dimensionsCDP Data Visualization enables you to display multiple dimensions in Interactive Map     visuals.Interactive map with multiple measuresCDP Data Visualization enables you to display multiple measures in Interactive Map     visuals.Changing the map server for interactive mapsCDP Data Visualization uses two third-party options for its Interactive Map visuals:     Google and Mapbox.Changing layer options for interactive mapsCDP Data Visualization enables you to make adjustments to all layers of an Interactive     Map visual.Plotting routes on interactive mapsCDP Data Visualization enables you to plot routes over an Interactive Map.Using alphabetic values in interactive mapsCDP Data Visualization Interactive Map visuals support both numeric and non-numeric     values on the Color shelf. As a result, aspects of named categories can be viewed simultaneously     on the same visual as a distinct series.Segmenting data qualitatively in interactive mapsCDP Data Visualization enables you to plot qualitative ranges of data by specifying the     data segmentation on the Color shelf of an Interactive Map visual.Shelves for interactive mapsOverview of shelves for CDP Data Visualization Interactive Map visuals.Parent topic: Visual type catalog