Configure transaction supportCloudera Docs
Configure transaction support
Before you can start using transactions, you must first add the Apache Omid service
        and configure Apache Phoenix to enable transactions. Apache Omid provides the transaction
        management capability in Apache Phoenix.


If your cluster is Kerberized, run the kinit command as
                        hbase user before adding the Apache Omid service to the
                    cluster. Ensure you have valid Kerberos credentials. You can list the Kerberos
                    credentials using the klist command. orIf you do not
                        want to kinit as a hbase user, you can use
                        Apache Ranger in the SDX Data Lake to grant the user permissions to CREATE,
                        READ and WRITE on the commit table (default table name
                            OMID_COMMIT_TABLE) and timestamp table (default table
                        name OMID_TIMESTAMP_TABLE).Apache Omid creates and
                        writes to OMID_COMMIT_TABLE and
                            OMID_TIMESTAMP_TABLE during a transaction.
Ensure that the Apache Phoenix client doing transactions should have minimum
                        WRITE permissions on commit table (default table name
                        OMID_COMMIT_TABLE).



Add the Apache Omid service, and configure Apache Phoenix using Cloudera Manager.


On the Home >  Status tab, click  to the right of the cluster name and select Add
                        a Service. A list of service types display. You can add one type of
                    service at a time.

Select Omid and click
                    Continue.

Click Finish to complete adding the Omid service. Return
                    to the Cloudera Manager home page.

The Phoenix OMID TSO service listens to the 54758 port by default, which is
                        in the ephemeral port range. Because of this, the service might randomly
                        fail to start if the port is already used.
To avoid this, change the TSO port to 24758. Follow these steps to change the
                        default port.



Click on the Omid service.


Go to Configuration and search for
                                OMID TSO server port.


Modify the port to 24758.


Enter a Reason for change, and then click
                                Save Changes.


Click  (Stale configuration).


Restart the Omid service when Cloudera Manager prompts you to
                            restart.



noteYou need to change the port manually in all the Omid
                        configuration files that are not managed by Cloudera Manager.


Verify the new service is started properly by checking the health status of the
                    new service. If the Health Status is
                        Good, then the service started properly.






After the Omid service has started, go to the HBase service.

Click the Configuration tab.

Select Scope > Gateway.

Select Category > Advanced.

Locate the HBase Client Advanced Configuration Snippet
                    property or search for HBase Client Advanced Configuration Snippet
                        (Safety Valve) for hbase-site.xml:
Click View as XML and add the following property value:
                    <property>
  <name>phoenix.transactions.enabled</name>
  <value>true</value>
</property>

Enter a Reason for change, and then click
                        Save Changes to commit the changes.

Restart the role and service when Cloudera Manager prompts you to
                    restart.


Parent topic: Using transactions in Apache Phoenix