What is Parameter Context inheritance?Cloudera Docs
What is Parameter Context inheritance?
With Inherited Parameter Contexts, you can make granular updates to Parameter Contexts
  and have the changes propagate to all Contexts that inherit from them. 
Parameter Context is a named set of parameters with applied access policies in Apache NiFi.
   Using Parameter Contexts is a powerful way to make flows more portable. Paired with Process
   Groups, Parameter Contexts allow different values to be supplied to the same basic flow in
   multiple NiFi instances, or even within the same overall NiFi flow in a single instance. However,
   as the number of parameters grows, Parameter Contexts can become more difficult to maintain and
   can result in a monolithic Parameter Context. If you collect all parameters in a root Parameter
   Context, you are parameterizing your Process Groups with more parameters than they need, as some
   of the parameters included in the Parameter Context are applicable only to certain Process
   Groups.
The goal is to avoid parameter duplication and yet still compose groups of parameters as
   needed. Starting with Apache NiFi 1.15.0, Parameter Contexts support inheritance, so you can add
   inherited Parameter Contexts to an existing Parameter Context. This feature brings more
   flexibility and maintainability to NiFi’s already powerful Parameter Context framework. Using
   inheritance makes it easier to manage common sets of parameters used across many flows and adjust
   specific parameters for a given instance as needed. Creating Parameter Contexts through
   inheritance provides the opportunity to use a structure of smaller, logically grouped Parameter
   Contexts and design your flows with these smaller, composable Contexts. Once you set up the
   inheritance hierarchy, you can make granular updates and have the changes propagate to all other
   Contexts that inherit from it.
For more information about Process Groups, see Configuring a Process Group in the Apache
    NiFi User Guide.
For more information about Parameter Contexts, see Parameter Contexts in the Apache NiFi
    User Guide.

Related information Configuring a Process Group, Apache NiFi User GuideParameter Contexts, Apache NiFi User Guide