Setting up Parameter Context inheritanceCloudera Docs
Setting up Parameter Context inheritance
Follow these steps to configure inherited Parameter Contexts.

Now that you have the individual Parameter Contexts set up, you can begin grouping them
    together, and create higher-level Parameter Contexts to build out your inheritance hierarchy and
    use them with the two Process Groups (Source ABC Kafka to S3 and Source DEF Kafka to
     GCS). The goal is to have one Parameter Context for each Process Group, composed of smaller
    units.
In this example, site properties and Kafka parameters are needed for both Process Groups.
    Additionally, each Process Group will have a source-related and a destination-related Parameter
    Context.

You have created two Process Groups in Apache NiFi:
Source ABC Kafka to S3 that needs parameters for your Kafka brokers, Source
     ABC’s topic, and for the S3 bucket
Source DEF Kafka to GCS that needs parameters for the same Kafka brokers,
     Source DEF’s topic, and for the GCP bucket
In both Process Groups, you would like to use some common parameters tagging
     flowfiles with site-specific information


Design the inheritance logic.

In this example, the following structure is used:

Kafka and Site - inherits from Kafka and
        Site Properties
ABC Kafka and Site - inherits from Kafka and
        Site and Source ABC
DEF Kafka and Site - inherits from Kafka and
        Site and Source DEF
ABC Kafka to S3 - inherits from ABC Kafka and
        Site and S3
DEF Kafka to GCS - inherits from DEF Kafka and
        Site and GCP Cloud Storage

Based on the above structure, the hierarchy for the two top-level Parameter Contexts looks
      like this:
ABC Kafka to S3 Parameter Context
ABC Kafka and Site Parameter Context
Kafka and Site Parameter Context
Kafka Parameter Context
Kafka Brokers parameter with value
               localhost:9092
Kafka Group ID parameter with value
               MyGroup

Site Properties Parameter Context
Site Identifier parameter with value
               1234
Site Data Manager parameter with value
               MyDM


Source ABC Parameter Context
Kafka Topic parameter with value
             source-abc-topic


S3 Parameter Context
S3 Bucket parameter with value
          my-bucket
S3 Region parameter with value
          us-west-2


DEF Kafka to GCS Parameter Context

DEF Kafka and Site Parameter Context
Kafka and Site Parameter Context
Kafka Parameter Context
Kafka Brokers parameter with value
              localhost:9092
Kafka Group ID parameter with value
              MyGroup

Site Properties Parameter Context
Site Identifier parameter with value
              1234
Site Data Manager parameter with value
              MyDM


Source DEF Parameter Context
Kafka Topic parameter with value
            source-def-topic


GCP Cloud Storage Parameter Context
GCP Project ID parameter with value
          my-project
GCP Bucket parameter with value my-bucket




Configure Parameter Context inheritance in NiFi for ABC Kafka to S3.


Create a new Parameter Context named Kafka and Site and go to the
        INHERITANCE tab.
You can see all of the individual Parameter Contexts.


Drag Kafka and Site Properties to the right under Selected Parameter
        Context.


Click APPLY, and then edit the Kafka and Site Parameter
        Context to see the new parameters.

All four parameters from the two Parameter Contexts are now available in the view, and
        each of them has an (arrow) icon. You can click one of these to
        navigate to the Parameter Context in which the parameter is defined and edit its value.
note
You can drag/drop from the Available Parameter Contexts to the
         required inherited order in the Selected Parameter Context
         column.
When you remove a Parameter Context from the Selected Parameter
          Context list, it returns to the Available Parameter
          Contexts that is sorted alphabetically.




Repeat steps 1-3 to create ABC Kafka and Site Parameter Context inheriting all
       parameters from the Kafka and Site and the Source ABC Parameter Contexts.


Finally, repeat steps 1-3 to create ABC Kafka to S3 Parameter Context inheriting
       all parameters from the ABC Kafka and Site and the S3 Parameter Contexts.


This is how ABC Kafka to S3 looks like after the full setup:



Configure Parameter Context inheritance for DEF Kafka to GCS. Follow the steps you
     completed when creating the ABC Kafka to S3 Parameter Context.


Parent topic: Example for configuring Parameter Context inheritance