




Working with your Flow Management cluster: Documentation








Cloudera Docs









Working with your Flow Management cluster


Once you have your Flow Management cluster up and running, review this
page for information about how to operate and customize your cluster.



Authorizing Flow Management cluster access
Describes how how to authorize a new user to access and manage NiFi and NiFi Registry in CDP Public Cloud.

Scaling your Flow Management cluster
Describes how to scale your Flow Management clusters in CDP Public Cloud.

Changing the Java version in your Flow Management Data Hub cluster
Describes how to change the Java version after provisioning a new cluster or after upgrading your cluster in CDP Public Cloud.

Fetching new components and fixes without upgrading
Describes how to fetch new components and fixes for your Flow Management Data Hub clusters.

Hot loading custom NARs
Describes how to hot load custom NARs so that you can store the NARs for your NiFi custom processors in an external folder, and load them from that directory for use on the NiFi canvas. This makes it easy to edit custom processors and add new ones without having to restart your Flow Management cluster.
 

Using Parameter Context inheritance
Describes how using inheritance makes it easier to manage common sets of parameters used across many flows and adjust specific parameters for a given instance as needed.

Using Parameter Providers
Describes how to generate Parameter Contexts from external sources and how to keep provided Parameter Contexts up to date with these external sources.

Using DataFlow Catalog Registry Client
Describes how to add a new DataFlow Catalog Registry Client and how to use it for checking out and versionsing flows.

Exporting/importing data flows using NiFi Toolkit CLI
Describes how to to use the NiFi CLI to export versioned flows from the Registry and how to import flows into the Registry.

Switching flow persistence providers using NiFi Toolkit CLI
Describes how to to use the NiFi CLI Export/Import All capability to switch flow persistence providers.
 
 
 

















