Accessing Iceberg tablesCloudera Docs
Accessing Iceberg tables
CDP uses Apache Ranger to provide centralized security administration and management.
  The Ranger Admin UI is the central interface for security administration. You can use Ranger to
  create two policies that allow users to query Iceberg tables.
Using Ranger with Iceberg is a technical preview and not recommended for General Data
   Protection Regulation (GDPR) applications. 
How you open the Ranger Admin UI differs from one CDP service to another. In Management
   Console, you can select your environment, and then click Environment Details > Quick Links > Ranger. 

You log into the Ranger Admin UI, and the Ranger Service Manager appears. 


The default policies that appear differ from service to service. You need to set up two Hadoop
   SQL policies to query Iceberg tables, and depending on your use case, you might want to include a
   third policy: an IAM policy to secure access to your data storage:


One to authorize users to access the Iceberg filesFollow steps in "Edit a policy to access Iceberg files" below.
One to authorize users to query Iceberg tablesFollow steps in "Creating a policy to query an Iceberg table" below.
    
An optional IAM policy for data storageUntil Ranger with Iceberg policies are GA, if you
      need tight security, use "S3 buckets, IAM roles, and policies for logs, backups, and
       data storage" in addition to the Hadoop SQL Storage Handler policy to secure Iceberg
      files on your object store.


You can find complete Ranger documentation for Public Cloud in "Security".
Prerequisites

Obtain the RangerAdmin role.
Get the user name and password your Administrator set up for logging into the Ranger
      Admin.The default credentials for logging into the Ranger Admin Web UI are
      admin/admin123.



Editing a policy to access Iceberg filesYou learn how to edit the existing default Hadoop SQL Storage Handler policy to         access files. This policy is one of the two Ranger policies required to use         Iceberg.Creating a policy to query an Iceberg table You learn how to set up the second required policy for using Iceberg. This policy         manages SQL query access to Iceberg tables.