Hardware and storageCloudera Docs
Hardware and storage
The "Hardware and storage" options allow you to customize the cloud provider specific
  cluster hardware and storage options.
The Hardware and Storage options can be selected for each host group. To edit this
   section for a specific host group, click on the . When done editing, click on the  to save the changes. Repeat for these steps for all host groups that
   you would like to edit. 
The following hardware and storage settings are available:


Parameter
Description



Cloudera Manager Server
You must select one node for Cloudera Manager Server by clicking the  button. The “Instance Count” for
       that host group must be set to “1”. If you are using one of the default cluster templates, this is
       set by default.


Instance Type

Select an instance type. For information about instance types on
                Azure refer to General Purpose Virtual Machine Sizes in
                Azure documentation.



Instance Count
Enter the number of instances of a given type. Default is 1.


Storage Type

Select the volume type. The options are: (1) Locally-redundant
                storage, (2) Geo-redundant storage, (3) Premium locally-redundant storage. For more
                information about these options refer to Introduction to Azure Storage in Azure
                documentation.


Attached Volumes Per Instance
Enter the number of volumes attached per instance. Default is 1.


Volume Size
Enter the size in GB for each volume. Default is 100.


Root Volume Size
This option allows you to increase or decrease the root volume
                size. Default is 100 GB. This option is useful if your custom image requires more
                space than the default 100 GB. If you change the value of the root volume size, an
                osDisk with the given rootVolumeSize will be created for the instance automatically;
                however, you will have to manually resize the osDisk partition by using the steps
                provided in How to Resize Linux osDisk Partition on
                  Azure in Azure documentation. If you use a custom Data Hub template
                specifying a root volume size smaller than 100GB, you may encounter an
                error.



Availability Sets
To support fault tolerance for VMs, Azure uses availability sets. This allows two or
                more VMs to be mapped to multiple fault domains, each of which defines a group of
                virtual machines that share a common power source and a network switch. When adding
                VMs to an availability set, Azure automatically assigns each VM a fault domain. The
                SLA includes guarantees that during OS Patching in Azure or during maintenance
                operations, at least one VM belonging to a given fault domain will be
              available.In CDP, no availability sets are configured by default. To have
              availability sets configured, make sure to navigate to the "Hardware and Storage" tab
              in the Advanced Options during Data Hub creation. In this case, one availability set
              is configured during cluster creation for each host group with “Instance Count” that
              is set to 1 or larger. The assignment of fault domains is automated by Azure, so there
              is no option for this in CDP web UI.  noteAlthough there is no specific option in
                the "Hardware and Storage" tab to enable availability sets, just navigating to this
                page will cause the availability sets to be configured. On that page, one can
                observe the availability set names present for each group. This and other
                availability set parameters for the availability sets cannot be configured.
                After the deployment is finished, you can check the layout of the VMs
                inside an availability set on Azure Portal. You will find the “Availability set”
                resources corresponding to the host groups inside the deployment’s resource
                group.


Availability Set Name
Choose a name for the availability set that will be created for the selected host
       group. The following convention is used: “clustername-hostgroupname-as”.


Fault Domain Count
The number of fault domains. Default is 2 or 3, depending on the setting supported by
       Azure.


Update Domain Count
This number of update domains. This can be set to a number in range of 2-20. Default is
       20.



Parent topic: Advanced cluster options