Rollback HDP services 3.1.5 from CDP 7.1.xCloudera Docs
Rollback HDP services 3.1.5 from CDP 7.1.x
To roll back, you must first backup using the automated backup procedure or
        manually starting the transition process. You can roll back an upgrade from HDP 3.1.5.x to CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.x. The
        rollback restores your HDP cluster to the state it was in before the upgrade, including
        Kerberos and TLS/SSL configurations. 
In 7.1.x, x represents greater than or equal to 6. For example, 7.1.6, 7.1.7, 7.1.8, and
            so on. Also, 7.1.7 SP1 and 7.1.7 SP2 rollback is supported.
Before you start rolling back the CDP Private Cloud Base 7 to HDP 3, review the following
            information. 
Caveats

Any data created after the backup is lost. 
Follow all of the steps in the order presented in this topic. Cloudera recommends
                that you read through the backup and rollback steps before starting the backup
                process. You may want to create a detailed plan to help you anticipate potential
                problems. 
You can roll back to HDP 3 after upgrading to CDP Private Cloud Base 7 only if the
                HDFS upgrade has not been finalized. The rollback restores your HDP cluster to the
                state it was in before the upgrade, including Kerberos and TLS/SSL configurations. 
These rollback steps depend on complete backups taken before upgrading to CDP. For
                steps where you need to restore the contents of a directory, clear the contents of
                the directory before copying the backed-up files to the directory. If you fail to do
                this, artifacts from the original upgrade can cause problems if you attempt the
                upgrade again after the rollback.

Review Limitations
The rollback procedure has the following limitations.
HDFS – If you have finalized the HDFS upgrade, you cannot roll back your
                    cluster. 
Configuration changes, including the addition of new services or roles after the
                    upgrade are not retained after rolling back Ambari. Cloudera recommends that you
                    not make configuration changes or add new services and roles until you have
                    finalized the HDFS upgrade and no longer require the option to roll back your
                    upgrade. 
HBase – If your cluster is configured to use HBase replication, data written to
                    HBase after the upgrade might not be replicated to peers when you start your
                    rollback. This topic does not describe how to determine which, if any, peers
                    have the replicated data and how to roll back that data. For more information
                    about HBase replication, see HBase Replication. 
Kafka – Once the Kafka log format and protocol version configurations (the
                        inter.broker.protocol.version and
                        log.message.format.version properties) are set to the
                    new version (or left blank, which means to use the latest version), Kafka
                    rollback is not possible.


Automated rollbackAutomated rollback in CMA 2.4.0 is a tech preview with full functionality. Cloudera         does not recommend you to use the automated rollback procedure on production clusters. Manual rollbackRollback Cloudera Manager to Ambari 2.7.5