Preparing configurationsCloudera Docs
Preparing configurations
 This section helps you in understanding how the Ambari parameters are mapped to the
        new cluster on Cloudera Manager, analyze the differences, and update the mappings
        accordingly. 

In the Preparing Configurations page, you can review and compare the
                    configuration key-value pairs in the current cluster versus the new CDP Private
                    Cloud Base cluster.




You can edit the mapping rules and generate a new configuration summary with
                    changes. You can try multiple settings before mapping the HDP parameters to CDP.
                    You can export the configurations to a CSV file, share with others, and reset
                    the mapping rules to default and start again.

The Export configuration files option helps you to
                    download a zip file of the migration ruleset. You can also import an old ruleset
                    with the Import configuration files function.

If the default mapping behavior is not accepted, you can edit the mapping using
                    the icon. CDP Change Type describes how the HDP
                    configuration parameters are mapped to the CDP Private Cloud Base configuration
                    parameters. For example,


ADDITIONAL-PARAM: Newly introduced parameter in
                            the CDP Private Cloud Base cluster. This parameter does not have an HDP
                            equivalent parameter.


IGNORED: This parameter is not mapped to CDP
                            Private Cloud Base cluster.


IGNORED-DEFAULT: CMA considers the default value
                            on HDP cluster and sets the default CDP value on the CDP cluster. For
                            example, the default port value is 7085 for
                                ranger.service.shutdown.port. Accordingly, the
                            default port value is updated on the CDP cluster.


MAPPED: HDP key/value pair are mapped to a
                            different CDP key/value pair



NO-SAFETY-VALVE-IGNORED: Configurations without
                            defined mapping or safety valves are ignored. 


SAFETY-VALVE(safety_valve_type): This HDP
                            configuration is migrated to the CDP safety valve configuration. For
                            more information, see Cloudera Manager Custom
                                Configuration.








The radio buttons help you to add or remove a configuration from the
                        IGNORED list. If you change the configuration, the
                    row color changes to highlight the changed configurations. You can also add new
                    configurations to the mapping. 

You can add a new additional parameter or a parameter to a safety valve by
                    selecting the CDP change type. 

After completing the review and editing all the parameters, click
                        Finalize Configurations Changes to generate a new
                    configuration summary with the new ruleset. This process can be performed
                    multiple times and the am2cm tool will use the last version of the ruleset.
                


