Disk space and mountpoint considerationsCloudera Docs
Disk space and mountpoint considerations
Review the minimum disk space requirements before you upgrade from HDP 3.1.5 to CDP
        7.1.x.


Partition
Storage
Detail

/usr/hdp
10 GB
Minimum space required for each installed HDP version.

/opt/cloudera
40 GB for CM 30 GB for all hosts
Minimum space required for each installed and retained CDP version. 

/usr/hdp
35 GB
If you are upgrading from HDP 3.1.5.x to CDP 7.1.x, there is an interim
                        step to upgrade to HDP intermediate bits. You would need a minimum 30 GB
                        available space to make the transition.

/var/log
200 GB - 500 GB

Minimum space required for storing the logs. 

noteEnsure this is not part of the root OS partition. 



/var/*
2 GB
Minimum space required for Cloudera Manager agent and for the Cloudera
                        components. 

/tmp
20GB
At least 20 GB of free space required for storing the temp data by CLDR
                        services.

/<data-dir>
Varies 
Datanode, Kafka Logs, Namenode Image and Edits, Journal Node,
                            ZooKeeper.These should all be on separate mounts to avoid disk issues
                            with the os partition.Performance Impact: For the
                            Namenode, Journal Node, and ZooKeeper data directories, these should be
                            on dedicated disks (and mounts) for the most optimal performance of
                            these critical services. Disk contention with other write operations
                            will have an impact on these services.Performance Impact:
                            Data-directories for Datanode and Kafka-Logs should be simple JBOD
                            drives. RAID support has a support impact and these services are storage
                            redundant at the service level. RAID is NOT recommended for these
                            service data directories.

/<yarn-local>
Varies by workload yarn.nodemanager.local-dirs`Between
                        5-25% of host storage depending on workload types.
Applications that are heavy in MR technologies will benefit
                        tremendously by using the SSDstorage.


For more information on the hardware requirements for Runtime components, see Cloudera Runtime.
For more information on the CM server storage requirements, see Cloudera Manager Server.
For more information on the CDP Private Cloud Base requirements, see CDP Private Cloud Base Requirements and Supported
                Versions.

Parent topic: Cluster environment readiness