Enabling Basic Authentication for the SRM ServiceCloudera Docs
Enabling Basic Authentication for the SRM Service
Basic Authentication (BA) can be enabled for the Streams Replication Manager (SRM)
    Service in Cloudera Manager. After BA is enabled, the REST API of the SRM Service becomes
    secured. Any clients or services accessing the REST API will need to present valid credentials
    for access. 

BA is set up for the SRM Service by creating Basic Authentication Credentials. A Basic
        Authentication Credential is an item that securely stores a username/password pair that can
        be used by the SRM Service for BA. Once the credential is defined, you must turn on BA for
        the SRM Service and reference the credentials you created in SRM’s configuration. After
        configuration is complete, the SRM Service and its Rest API will only be accessible by
        clients and services that present valid credentials.
In addition to the credentials configured with Basic Authentication Credentials, another
        username/password pair is generated automatically. This username and password pair is used
        by other services that depend on SRM and are deployed in the same cluster. These credentials
        are automatically passed to the dependent services. This way, any co-located dependent
        service automatically has access to the SRM REST API when BA is enabled. For example,
        Streams Messaging Manager is a service like this. It provides replication monitoring by
        accessing and gathering metrics from the SRM REST API. As a result it requires access to the
        REST API.  If required, the automatically generated credentials can be updated. However
        their configuration is optional.

Create Basic Authentication Credentials:
SRM supports BA for multiple users. This means that you can create more than one
            credential. Cloudera recommends that you create at least two. One for any external
            services and clients, and one that can be used by SRM internally.

In Cloudera Manager go to
                  Administration > External
                  Accounts > Basic Authentication
                Credentials.
Click Add Basic Authentication
            Credentials.
Configure the following properties:

NameAdd a unique and easily identifiable name. Note
                    down the name you configure, you will need to provide it in a later
                  step.
Username and PasswordAdd a
                    username and password. These credentials will be accepted by SRM when an
                    external client or service tries to access the REST API. Take note of the
                    username and password that you configure. Depending on your cluster and setup,
                    you might need to provide these credentials when configuring other SRM features
                    or external clients and services that access the SRM REST API. 


Enable BA for the SRM Service:
Go to Clusters and select the Streams Replication
              Manager Service.
Go to Configuration.
Find and enable the SRM Service Use Basic
                Authentication property.
Find and configure the External Basic Authentication Accounts
                Accepted By SRM Service property.Add the names of all Basic
              Authentication Credentials that you created in Step 1. For
              example:external_1
external_2
internal_1

Find and configure the SRM Service Intra Cluster Account
                Name property.This property controls which credential should
              be used by the individual SRM Service roles within the cluster to communicate with
              each other. Add one of the Basic Authentication Credential names that you added to the
                External Basic Authentication Accounts Accepted By SRM
                Service property. For example:
            internal_1
Optional: Configure the automatically generated credentials used by
          dependent services.The automatically generated username and password can be
          configured with the following properties:
SRM Service Co-Located Service Username
SRM Service Co-Located Service User Password
Click Save Changes.Restart Streams Replication Manager.
BA is configured for the SRM Service


If you have previously enabled Remote Querying for a separate SRM Service that targets
          this SRM Service (the one that you enabled BA for) with Remote Querying, complete
            Configuring Basic Authentication for Remote Querying for the SRM Service
          that has Remote Querying enabled.

Query metrics. You can do either of the following:

Access the Replications page on the SMM UI. Replications will
              be visible in the UI.
Query metrics using the SRM REST API. For example:
Go to Streams Replication Manager
                       >  Web UI  >  SRM Service Swagger
                      UI.
Find and open the /v2/replications endpoint.
Click Try it out then click
                    Execute.You are prompted to enter a username and
                    password. 
Enter the credentials you configured using Basic Authentication
                    Credentials.The response includes all discovered replications, replicated
                    topics, and various other metrics.






Related informationConfiguring Basic Authentication for Remote QueryingParent topic: Configuring Basic Authentication for the SRM Service