Streams Replication Manager security overviewCloudera Docs
Streams Replication Manager security overview
Configuring Streams Replication Manager (SRM) security involves enabling and setting
    security-related features and properties for the SRM service (Driver and Service roles) and the
      srm-control command line tool. This permits SRM to access source and target
    clusters and replicate data between them. In addition, it also enables the subcomponents of SRM
    that act as servers to function in a secure way.
Streams Replications Manager functions both as a client and a server. When SRM replicates
      data and connects to Kafka clusters it functions as a client. In addition however, some
      processes and components of SRM act as servers. For example the SRM Service role spins up a
      REST server. Similarly, the SRM Driver role has replication specific Connect REST servers
      which provide background functionality.
As a result of this, configuring security for SRM has two distinct aspects as you can
      configure security for SRM not only when it acts as client, but also when it acts as a
      server.
Server configuration
Security for SRM processes and components that act as servers can be configured by enabling
        the TLS/SSL and/or Kerberos feature toggles as well as configuring key and truststore
        related properties available in Cloudera Manager. For more information see, Enable
          TLS/SSL for the SRM serviceor Enable Kerberos authentication for the SRM
          service
noteWhile the security feature toggles enable security for the components of SRM that
        function as servers, they are multi-purpose and also configure the security properties that
        are needed for SRM to connect, as a client, to the co-located clusters. As a result of this,
        if you have followed Defining and adding clusters for replication and have a
        secured co-located cluster, it is likely that security is already set up for the components
        that act as servers. 

Client configuration
Configuring security for SRM when it functions as a client involves enabling and setting
        security-related features and properties for the SRM service and the
          srm-control command line tool. This permits both the service and the tool
        to access your source and target clusters and replicate data between them. The configuration
        workflow and the steps you need to take differ for the service and tool. 

SRM service

Before you can start replicating data with SRM, you must define the clusters that
              take part in the replication process and add them to SRM’s configuration. When you
              define a cluster, you also specify the required keys, certificates, and credentials
              needed to access the clusters that you define. This means that when you define a
              cluster for replication, at the same time, you also configure the necessary
              security-related properties needed for SRM to connect as a client. 
The clusters and their security properties can be defined in multiple ways. What
              method you use depends on the clusters in your deployment and the type of security
              these clusters use. For more information regarding the workflow and the available
              options for configuration, see Defining and adding clusters for
                replication. 

srm-control tool
In addition to configuring security for the SRM service, you also need to configure
            security related properties for the srm-control tool. This is because
            the srm-control tool also functions as a client and must have access to
            the clusters in the deployment. The exact configuration steps you need to take depends
            on how your deployment is set up, how you configured the service, and the type of
            security used on the clusters. For more information regarding the workflow and the
            available options for configuration, see Configuring srm-control.



Related informationEnabling TLS/SSL for the SRM serviceDefining and adding clusters for replicationConfiguring srm-controlEnabling Kerberos for the SRM service