Scheduled jobsCloudera Docs
Scheduled jobs
Cloudera Data Visualization makes it easy to check out and examine the information
    available about your jobs. The Jobs interface has three tabs:
      Job Logs, Scheduled Jobs and Manage
      Schedule Intervals.
The Scheduled Jobs tab shows the list of jobs that run on a schedule,
      or are triggered by measures on the dataset reaching a defined threshold. It also shows the
      options and actions available for these jobs.





REFRESH updates the jobs information.


DELETE SELECTED performs a delete on all selected jobs. For more
          information, see Deleting jobs.


RUN NOW reruns all selected jobs. For more information, see
            Rerunning jobs.


RESUME restarts all selected jobs that have been paused. For more
          information, see Resuming paused jobs.


Filters for scheduled job based on their Type,
            Status, and Owner.


Job ID on the Scheduled Jobs tab and
            theJob Log tab is the same. This helps to debug performance
          issues.


Type provides information on wheher the job is a data extract or
          an adhoc, scheduled or a threshold email.


Name of the scheduled job.


The Details column provides additional information about the
          scheduled job such as threshold information (if any), email recipients, schedule type, and
          so on.


Owner provides the ID of the user who created the scheduled job.
          For more information, see Changing the owner of a job.


Schedule can be either one of the standard types (weekly, hourly,
          and so on), or a custom interval.


Last Run


Next Run


Last Status indicates if the job is paused or active.


The checkbox on the header row and on each job log entry selects the jobs for bulk
          deletion or a rerun.


DETAILS opens the information module of the job log. 


EDIT opens the Edit Job modal window.


RUN NOW reruns the job. For more information, see Rerunning
            jobs.


PAUSE suspends a scheduled or triggered job indefinitely, but
          leaves its definition intact so you can easily resume it. For more information, see
            Pausing jobs.



Related informationDeleting jobsRerunning jobsResuming paused jobsChanging the owner of a jobPausing jobs