Run the Cloudera Manager Server InstallerCloudera Docs
Run the Cloudera Manager Server Installer
Run the Cloudera Manager installer to the cluster host to which you are installing
        the Cloudera Manager Server. By default, the automated installer binary
            (cloudera-manager-installer.bin) installs the highest version of
        Cloudera
        Manager.



Download the trial software.




Run the Cloudera Manager installer:


Change cloudera-manager-installer.bin to have execute
                            permissions:

chmod u+x cloudera-manager-installer.bin



Run the Cloudera Manager Server installer:

sudo ./cloudera-manager-installer.bin



For clusters without Internet access: Install Cloudera Manager
                            packages from a local repository:

sudo ./cloudera-manager-installer.bin --skip_repo_package=1



The Cloudera Manager Read Me page appears. 



Click Next.
The Cloudera Standard License page appears.



Click Next to accept the license agreement. 
The the installer starts and does the following:
Installs Oracle JDK.


Installs the Cloudera Manager Server.


 Installs the embedded PostgreSQL packages and starts the database and
                            Cloudera Manager Server.


noteIf the installation is interrupted, run the
                        following command on the Cloudera Manager Server host before you retry the
                            installation:sudo /usr/share/cmf/uninstall-cloudera-manager.shThe
                            log files for the installer are stored in
                                /var/log/cloudera-manager-installer/.

Exit the installer:


When the installation completes, the complete URL for the Cloudera
                            Manager Admin Console displays, including the default port number:
                            7180.

importantMake a note of this URL or take a screen capture
                                as you will need it for the next task. 






Click OK. 
The success message appears. 


Click OK to exit the installer.







Wait a few minutes for the Cloudera Manager Server to start. To observe
                            the startup process, run sudo tail -f
                                /var/log/cloudera-scm-server/cloudera-scm-server.log on the
                            Cloudera Manager Server host. When you see the following log entry, the
                            Cloudera Manager Admin Console is ready:

INFO WebServerImpl:com.cloudera.server.cmf.WebServerImpl: Started Jetty server.




Install Cloudera Runtime

Parent topic: Installing a Trial Cluster