Installing a Trial ClusterCloudera Docs
Installing a Trial Cluster
In this procedure, Cloudera Manager automates the installation of the Oracle JDK,
    Cloudera Manager Server, embedded PostgreSQL database, Cloudera Manager Agent, Runtime, and
    managed service software on cluster hosts. Cloudera Manager also configures databases for the
    Cloudera Manager Server and Hive Metastore and optionally for Cloudera Management Service
    roles.

importantThis procedure is intended for trial and proof-of-concept deployments
        only. It is not supported for production deployments because it is not designed to
        scale. 

Cluster Host Requirements:
The hosts you intend to use must satisfy the following requirements:

You must be able to log in to the Cloudera Manager Server host using the
          root user account or an account that has passwordless
          sudo privileges.
The Cloudera Manager Server host must have uniform SSH access on the same port to all
        hosts. For more information, see Runtime and Cloudera Manager Networking and Security
          Requirements.
All hosts must have access to standard package repositories for the operating system and
        either archive.cloudera.com or a local repository with the required
        installation files.
SELinux must be disabled or set to permissive mode before running the installer. 

Refer to the following topics for the steps required to install a trial
      cluster.

Before You Begin a Trial InstallationBefore you begin a trial installation, you must disable SELinux if you want the     Cloudera Manager installer to run. You can also optionally configure an HTTP proxy. Download the Trial version of CDP Private Cloud BaseYou can download the trial version of CDP Private Cloud Base         from the Cloudera Download site. Run the Cloudera Manager Server InstallerRun the Cloudera Manager installer to the cluster host to which you are installing         the Cloudera Manager Server. By default, the automated installer binary             (cloudera-manager-installer.bin) installs the highest version of         Cloudera         Manager.Install Cloudera RuntimeAfter you have installed Cloudera Manager, log in to Cloudera Manager to access the             Add Cluster - Installation wizard. Here you will add hosts to form         a cluster and install Cloudera Runtime and Cloudera Manager Agent software. Set Up a Cluster Using the WizardAfter completing the Cluster Installation wizard, the       Cluster Setup wizard automatically starts. The following sections guide     you through each page of the wizard.Parent topic: Trial Installation