Installing Ranger RMSCloudera Docs
Installing Ranger RMS
Ranger Resource Mapping Server (RMS) enables automatic translation of access policies
    from Hive to HDFS. 

Legacy CDH users used Hive policies in Apache Sentry that automatically linked Hive
        permissions with HDFS ACLs. This was especially convenient for external table data used by
        Spark or Hive.
Previously, Ranger only supported managing Hive and HDFS policies separately. Ranger RMS
        (Resource Mapping Server) allows you to authorize access to HDFS directories and files using
        policies defined for Hive tables. RMS is the service that enables Hive-HDFS ACL Sync.


importantCloudera does not support the MySQL server with
        Global Transaction Identifier (GTID) support enabled as a Ranger RMS database.
Ranger RMS requires:
A CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.4+ cluster with Apache Ranger, Hive, and HDFS. 
That you install Ranger RMS on the host where Hive_Gateway is available.
noteRanger RMS is not supported (and is generally not needed) on CDP Public Cloud.
        


On the cluster home page, click the More Options (ellipsis) icon, then click Add
            Service.

Select Ranger RMS, then click Continue.






On Assign Roles, click View by
          Host.

On View by Host, verfiy that host on which you install Ranger
          RMS has the required Hive Gateway role assigned, then click
          Close.



Figure 1. Verifying Hive Gateway role on a host






On Assign Roles, click Continue.






On the Review Changes page, 

note
Ranger RMS uses the same database settings that are used in Ranger. 
If Ranger service is using SSL-enabled database, make sure to have the database
              certificate / keystore / truststore file used by Ranger to connect to the SSL-enabled
              database present on the node where Ranger RMS is installed. 

If you would like to track managed tables, select the Enable Mapping Hive Managed
              Tables checkbox. 





noteIf you are adding Ranger RMS in a cluster with SSL enabled, the Enable TLS/SSL
              for Ranger RMS Server checkbox should already be selected by default. 






On the Command Details page, select run options, then click Continue.






On the Summary page, click Finish.

importantDo not start the Ranger RMS service before completing the following
            additional configuration steps. 





In Cloudera Manager > Hive Service > Configuration verify that the  Hive Metastore Access Control and Ranger RMS
          Proxy User Hosts property,
          hadoop.proxyuser.rangerrms.hosts is set to *.
        

note
rangerrms user is given superuser privilege only for HiveMetaStore
            service, so rangerrms can access metadata information without an
            explicit Ranger policy allowing it necessary permissions. However, Hive operations such
            as drop database must be authorized in the hive-server2 by Ranger
            policies. You must create an appropriate Ranger policy which grants the user executing
            this command the required permission to do so.


Log in to the Ranger Admin web UI. On the Service Manager page, click the Edit icon for
          the Hadoop SQL service, then verify that hdfs has been added to the
            tag.download.auth.users and policy.download.auth.users
          configurations.






In Cloudera Manager, select HDFS > Configuration, then use the Search box to
          search for Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
            ranger-hdfs-security.xml. Use the Add (+) icons to add the following properties,
          then click Save Changes. 




Name
Value



ranger.plugin.hdfs.chained.services
cm_hive


ranger.plugin.hdfs.chained.services.cm_hive.impl
org.apache.ranger.chainedplugin.hdfs.hive.RangerHdfsHiveChainedPlugin


ranger.plugin.hdfs.privileged.user.names
admin,dpprofiler,hue,beacon,hive,impala


ranger.plugin.hdfs.service.names
hive,impala


note The comma-seperated lists that you defne for hdfs
              privileged user names and service names are users that, based on default hive
              policies, have all access for all Hive resources. Therefore, for these users, checking
              Hive policies when they access storage locations which map to Hive resources is
              unnecessary, and may cause access violations if masking/row-filtering policies are
              configured for public group.






Click the HDFS Restart icon.




On the Stale Configurations page, click Restart Stale
            Services. 




On the Restart Stale Services page, select the Re-deploy client
            configuration checkbox, then click Restart Now. 




A progress indicator page appears while the services are being
          restarted. When the services have restarted, click Finish. 





Related informationConfiguring and Using Hive-HDFS ACL SyncParent topic: Production Installation