Data Analytics Studio (DAS)Cloudera Docs
Data Analytics Studio (DAS)

DAS is a memory-heavy and a disk-light application. For optimum performance, consider
        profiling the CPU cores, memory allocation, and disk space depending upon the number of
        users, the total number of databases and tables, and the number of queries in the
        system.
If you are setting up a high-availability cluster, then add additional cores and memory for
        the load balancer.
The following table provides component-wise recommendation for provisioning CPU, memory,
        and disk space. These recommendations are approximated considering 10 users, 10,000 Hive
        tables, 100 parallel Event Processor threads, and 40,000 queries.
Table 1. Hardware requirements for DAS

DAS component
CPU
Memory
Local Disk



Webapp


Minimum: 2 cores
Recommended: 2 cores

*The number of cores that you allocate need to be proportional to U.



Minimum: 4 GB
Recommended: 8 GB

*The amount of memory that you allocate need to be proportional to U and T.



Minimum: 5 GB
Recommended: 10 GB

*The amount of disk space that you allocate need to be proportional to U.



Event Processor


Minimum: 2 cores
Recommended: 4 cores

*The number of cores that you allocate need to be proportional to P.



Minimum: 4 GB
Recommended: 8 GB

*The amount of memory that you allocate need to be proportional to P and T.



Minimum: 5 GB
Recommended: 5 GB

*The disk space is primarily used for logs, and can remain constant.



Database


Minimum: 2 cores
Recommended: 4 cores

*The number of cores that you allocate need to be proportional to (P + U).



Minimum: 4 GB
Recommended: 8 GB

*The amount of memory that you allocate need to be proportional to (T + Q).



Minimum: 5 GB
Recommended: 20 GB

*The amount of disk space that you allocate need to be proportional to (T + U +
                  Q).



Where,
U is the number of users concurrently accessing the DAS Webapp
T is the number of tables in Hive
P denotes the parallelism configured in the DAS Event Processor
Q is the total number of queries in the system

Table 2. DAS Port Specifications

Default Port Number
Description



30900
Event Processor server port


30901
Event Processor admin server port


30800
Webapp server port


30801
Webapp admin port




Parent topic: Cloudera Runtime