Installation WizardCloudera Docs
Installation Wizard
Proceed through the installation wizard to accept licenses, install and configure
    Cloudera Runtime, and more.
Upload License File
On the Upload License File page, you can select
        either the trial version of CDP Data Center or upload a license
        file:

Choose one of the following options:
Upload Cloudera Data Platform
              License
Try Cloudera Data Platform for 60 days.
              The CDP Data Center trial does not require a license file, but the
              trial expires after 60 days.

If you choose the CDP Data Center Edition Trial, you can upload a
          license file at a later time. Read the license agreement and click the
          checkbox labeled Yes, I accept the Cloudera Standard
            License Terms and Conditions if you accept the terms and
          conditions of the license agreement. Then click
            Continue.
If you have a license file for CDP Data Center,
          upload the license file:
Select Upload Cloudera Data Platform
                License.
Click Upload License File.
Browse to the location of the license file,
              select the file, and click Open.
Click Upload.
Click Continue.

Click Continue to proceed with the
            installation.The Welcome page displays.


Welcome (Add Cluster - Installation)
The Welcome page of the Add Cluster -
          Installation wizard provides a brief overview of the
        installation and configuration procedure, as well as some links to
        relevant documentation.
Click Continue to proceed with the
        installation.

Cluster Basics
The Cluster Basics page allows you to specify
        the Cluster Name
For new installations, a Regular Cluster (also
        called a base cluster) is the only option. You can add a compute cluster
        after you finish installing the base cluster.
For more information on regular and compute clusters, and data
        contexts, see Virtual Private Clusters and Cloudera
          SDX.
Enter a cluster name and click Continue.

Setup Auto-TLS
The Setup Auto-TLS page provides instructions
        for initializing the certificate manager for auto-TLS if you have not
        done so already. If you already initialized the certificate manager in
          Step 3: Install Cloudera Manager Server, the wizard
        displays a message indicating that auto-TLS has been initialized. Click
          Continue to proceed with the installation.
If you have not already initialized the certificate manager, and you
        want to enable auto-TLS, follow the instructions provided on the page
        before continuing. When you reload the page as instructed, you are
        redirected to
          https://<server_host>:7183, and
        a security warning is displayed. You might need to indicate that you
        trust the certificate, or click to proceed to the Cloudera Manager
        Server host. You might also be required to log in again and re-complete
        the previous steps in the wizard.
If you do not want to enable auto-TLS at this time, click
          Continue to proceed.

Specify Hosts
Choose which hosts will run Runtime and other managed services.noteIf
          you have enabled Auto-TLS, you must include the Cloudera Manager
          server host when you specify hosts. 

To enable Cloudera Manager to automatically discover hosts on which
          to install Runtime and managed services, enter the cluster hostnames
          or IP addresses in the Hostnames field. You can
          specify hostname and IP address ranges as follows:

Expansion Range
Matching Hosts



10.1.1.[1-4]
10.1.1.1, 10.1.1.2, 10.1.1.3, 10.1.1.4


host[1-3].example.com
host1.example.com, host2.example.com,
                    host3.example.com


host[07-10].example.com
host07.example.com, host08.example.com,
                    host09.example.com, host10.example.com

importantUnqualified hostnames (short names)
            must be unique in a Cloudera Manager instance. For example, you
            cannot have both host01.example.com and
              host01.standby.example.com managed by the same
            Cloudera Manager Server.You can specify multiple addresses
            and address ranges by separating them with commas, semicolons, tabs,
            or blank spaces, or by placing them on separate lines. Use this
            technique to make more specific searches instead of searching overly
            wide ranges. Only scans that reach hosts running SSH will be
            selected for inclusion in your cluster by default. You can enter an
            address range that spans over unused addresses and then clear the
            nonexistent hosts later in the procedure, but wider ranges require
            more time to scan.
Click Search. If there are a large number of hosts on your
          cluster, wait a few moments to allow them to be discovered and shown
          in the wizard. If the search is taking too long, you can stop the scan
          by clicking Abort Scan. You can modify the search pattern and
          repeat the search as many times as you need until you see all of the
          expected hosts.noteCloudera Manager scans hosts by checking for
            network connectivity. If there are some hosts where you want to
            install services that are not shown in the list, make sure you have
            network connectivity between the Cloudera Manager Server host and
            those hosts, and that firewalls and SE Linux are not blocking
            access.
Verify that the number of hosts shown matches the number of hosts
          where you want to install services. Clear host entries that do not
          exist or where you do not want to install services.
Click Continue.The Select
              Repository screen displays.


Select Repository
importantYou cannot install
        software using both parcels and packages in the same cluster. 
The Select Repository page allows you to specify
        repositories for Cloudera Manager Agent and
          CDH and other software.
In the Cloudera Manager Agent section:

Select either Public Cloudera Repository or
            Custom Repository for the Cloudera Manager
          Agent software.
If you select Custom Repository, do not
          include the operating system-specific paths in the URL. For
          instructions on setting up a custom repository, see Configuring
            a Local Package Repository.

In the CDH and other software section:

 Select the repository type to use for the installation. In the
            Install Method section select one of the following:
Use Parcels (Recommended)A parcel is a binary
                distribution format containing the program files, along with
                additional metadata used by Cloudera Manager. Parcels are
                required for rolling upgrades. For more information, see
                  Parcels.
Use PackagesA package is a standard binary
                distribution format that contains compiled code and
                meta-information such as a package description, version, and
                dependencies. Packages are installed using your operating system
                package manager.notePackages are not supported for Cloudera
                  Runtime 7.0 and higher.

Select the version of Cloudera Runtime or CDH to install. If you do
          not see the version you want to install: 
Parcels – Click the Parcel Repository &
                Network Settings link to add the repository URL for
              your version. If you are using a local Parcel repository, enter
              its URL as the repository URL.Repository URLs for CDH 6 parcels
                are documented in CDH 6 Download
                    InformationRepository URLs for the Cloudera Runtime 7 parcels are documented in Cloudera Runtime Download
                  Information
importantIf you are using a 60-day trial license,
                  use the following Parcel Repository URL (authentication not
                  required):https://archive.cloudera.com/cdh7/7.1.7.0/parcels/After
                adding the repository, click Save Changes
                and wait a few seconds for the version to appear. If your
                Cloudera Manager host uses an HTTP proxy, click the
                  Proxy Settings button to configure your
                proxy. Note that if you have a Cloudera Enterprise
                license and are using Cloudera Manager 6.3.3 or higher to
                install a CDH version 6.3.3 or higher, or a Cloudera Runtime
                version 7.0 or higher using parcels, you do not need to
                add a username and password or "@" to the parcel repository URL.
                Cloudera Manager will authenticate to the Cloudera archive using
                the information in your license key file. Use a link to the
                repository in the following format:
                https://archive.cloudera.com/p/cdh6/6.x.x/parcels/If
                you are using a version of CM older than 6.3.3 to install CDH
                6.3.3 or higher parcels, you must include the username/password
                and "@" in the repository URL during installation or when you
                configure a CDH 6.3.3 or higher parcel repository. After you add
                the repository, click Save Changes and
                wait a few seconds for the version to appear. If your Cloudera
                Manager host uses an HTTP proxy, click the Proxy
                  Settings button to configure your
                  proxy.noteCloudera Manager only displays CDH versions it can
                  support. If an available CDH version is too new for your
                  Cloudera Manager version, it is not displayed. If the parcels
                  do not appear on the Parcels page, ensure that the Parcel URL
                  you entered is correct. 
Packages – If you selected Use
                Packages, and the version you want to install is not
              listed, you can select Custom Repository to
              specify a repository that contains the desired version. Repository
              URLs for CDH 6 version are documented in CDH 6 Download
                Information, If you are using a local package
                repository, enter its URL as the repository URL.

noteCloudera Manager only displays CDH or Cloudera Runtime versions
            it can support. If an available version is too new for your Cloudera
            Manager version, it is not displayed.
If you selected Use Parcels, specify any
            Additional Parcels you want to install. 
Click Continue.


Select JDK
noteCDP Data Center is no longer bundled with Oracle
        JDK software. Cloudera provides a supported version of OpenJDK.
If you installed your own JDK version, such as Oracle JDK 8, in
          Step 2: Install Java Development Kit, select
          Manually manage JDK.
To allow Cloudera Manager to automatically install the OpenJDK on
        cluster hosts, select Install a Cloudera-provided version of
          OpenJDK. 
To install the default OpenJDK that is provided by your operating
        system, select Install a system-provided version of
          OpenJDK.


After checking the applicable boxes, click
          Continue.

Enter Login Credentials

Select root for the root
          account, or select Another user and enter the
          username for an account that has password-less sudo
          privileges. (In the /etc/sudoers file, the entry for
          this should like this:
          %<username> ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
Select an authentication method:
If you choose password authentication, enter and confirm the
              password.
If you choose public-key authentication, provide a passphrase and path to the
              required key files.Generate keys in PEM format by running the following
                  command:ssh-keygen -m pem -t rsa -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa_pem
scp ~/.ssh/id_rsa_pem.pub HOST:.ssh/
ssh HOST 'cat .ssh/id_rsa_pem.pub >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys'noteIn the above command HOST is the hostname
                  of a host in the cluster. You must run the second and third command lines on every
                  host in the cluster.
You can modify the default SSH port if necessary.
Specify the maximum number of host installations to run at once. The
          default and recommended value is 10. You can adjust this based on your
          network capacity.
Click Continue.

The Install Agents page displays.

Install Agents
The Install Agents page displays the progress of
        the installation. You can click on the Details
        link for any host to view the installation log. If the installation is
        stalled, you can click the Abort Installation
        button to cancel the installation and then view the installation logs to
        troubleshoot the problem.
If the installation fails on any hosts, you can click the
          Retry Failed Hosts to retry all failed hosts,
        or you can click the Retry link on a specific
        host.
If you selected the option to manually install agents, see
          Manually Install Cloudera Manager Agent Packages for the
        procedure and then continue with the next steps on this page.
After installing the Cloudera Manager Agent on all hosts, click
          Continue.
If you are using parcels, the Install Parcels
        page displays. If you chose to install using packages, the
          Inspect Cluster page displays. 

Install Parcels
If you selected parcels for the installation method, the
          Install Parcels page reports the installation
        progress of the parcels you selected earlier. After the parcels are
        downloaded, progress bars appear representing each cluster host. You can
        click on an individual progress bar for details about that host.
After the installation is complete, click
          Continue.
The Inspect Cluster page displays.

Inspect Cluster
The Inspect Cluster page provides a tool for
        inspecting network performance as well as the Host Inspector to search
        for common configuration problems. Cloudera recommends that you run the
        inspectors sequentially:

Run the Inspect Network Performance tool. You
          can click Advanced Options to customize some
            ping parameters.
After the network inspector completes, click Show
            Inspector Results to view the results in a new tab.
Address any reported issues, and click Run
            Again (if applicable).
Click Inspect Hosts to run the Host Inspector
          utility.
After the host inspector completes, click Show Inspector
            Results to view the results in a new tab.
Address any reported issues, and click Run
            Again (if applicable).

If the reported issues cannot be resolved in a timely manner, and you
        want to abandon the cluster creation wizard to address them, select the
        radio button labeled Quit the wizard and Cloudera Manager
          will delete the temporarily created cluster and then click
          Continue.
Otherwise, after addressing any identified problems, select the radio
        button labeled I understand the risks, let me continue with
          cluster creation, and then click
          Continue.
This completes the Cluster Installation wizard
        and launches the Add Cluster - Configuration
        wizard.
Continue to Step 7: Set Up a Cluster Using the Wizard.


Parent topic: Step 7: Install Runtime and Other Software