Configuring Local Package and Parcel RepositoriesCloudera Docs
Configuring Local Package and Parcel Repositories
Cloudera hosts two types of software repositories that you can use to install products
    such as Cloudera Manager or Cloudera Runtime—parcel repositories and package repositories. These
    repositories are effective solutions in most cases, but custom installation solutions are
    sometimes required. 
For example, using the Cloudera-hosted software repositories requires client access over the
      Internet. Typical installations use the latest available software. In some scenarios, these
      behaviors might not be desirable, such as:
You need to install older product versions. For example, in a Runtime cluster, all hosts
          must run the same Runtime version. After completing an initial installation, you may want
          to add hosts. This could be to increase the size of your cluster to handle larger tasks or
          to replace older hardware.
The hosts on which you want to install Cloudera products are not connected to the
          Internet, so they cannot reach the Cloudera repository (for a parcel installation, only
          the Cloudera Manager Server needs Internet access, but for a package installation, all
          cluster hosts require access to the Cloudera repository). Most organizations partition
          parts of their network from outside access. Isolating network segments improves security,
          but can add complexity to the installation process.
In both of these cases, using an internal repository allows you to meet the needs of your
      organization, whether that means installing specific versions of Cloudera software or
      installing Cloudera software on hosts without Internet access.

Understanding Package ManagementBefore you configure a custom package management solution in your environment,     understand the concepts of package management tools and package repositories.Configuring a Local Package RepositoryYou can create a package repository for Cloudera Manager either by hosting an internal     web repository or by manually copying the repository files to the Cloudera Manager Server host     for distribution to Cloudera Manager Agent hosts.Configuring a Local Parcel RepositoryYou can create a parcel repository for Cloudera Manager either by hosting an internal     Web repository or by manually copying the repository files to the Cloudera Manager Server host     for distribution to Cloudera Manager Agent hosts.Parent topic: Before You Install