Cluster Lifecycle Management with Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Cluster Lifecycle Management with Cloudera Manager
Cloudera Manager clusters that use parcels to provide Cloudera Runtime and other
    components require adequate disk space in the following locations: 
Table 1. Parcel Lifecycle Management 

Parcel Lifecycle Path (default)
Notes



Local Parcel Repository Path (/opt/cloudera/parcel-repo)
This path exists only on the host where Cloudera Manager Server
                  (cloudera-scm-server) runs. The Cloudera Manager Server stages
                all new parcels in this location as it fetches them from any external repositories.
                Cloudera Manager Agents are then instructed to fetch the parcels from this location
                when the administrator distributes the parcel using the Cloudera Manager
                Administration Console or the Cloudera Manager API.Sizing and
                PlanningThe default location is /opt/cloudera/parcel-repo
                but you can configure another local filesystem location on the host where Cloudera
                Manager Server runs.Provide sufficient space to hold all the parcels you
                download from all configured Remote Parcel Repository URLs. Cloudera Manager
                deployments that manage multiple clusters store all applicable parcels for all
                clusters.Parcels are provided for each operating system, so be aware that
                heterogeneous clusters (distinct operating systems represented in the cluster)
                require more space than clusters with homogeneous operating systems.For
                example, a cluster with both RHEL6.x and 7.x hosts must hold -el6 and -el7 parcels
                in the Local Parcel Repository Path, which requires twice the amount of
                space.Lifecycle Management and Best PracticesDelete any parcels that
                are no longer in use from the Cloudera Manager Administration Console, (never delete
                them manually from the command line) to recover disk space in the Local Parcel
                Repository Path and simultaneously across all managed cluster hosts which hold the
                parcel.Backup ConsiderationsPerform regular backups of this path, and
                consider it a non-optional accessory to backing up Cloudera Manager Server. If you
                migrate Cloudera Manager Server to a new host or restore it from a backup (for
                example, after a hardware failure), recover the full content of this path to the new
                host, in the /opt/cloudera/parcel-repo directory before starting
                any cloudera-scm-agent or cloudera-scm-server
                processes. 


Parcel Cache (/opt/cloudera/parcel-cache)
Managed Hosts running a Cloudera Manager Agent stage distributed parcels into
                this path (as .parcel files, unextracted). Do not manually
                manipulate this directory or its files.Sizing and PlanningProvide
                sufficient space per-host to hold all the parcels you distribute to each
                host.You can configure Cloudera Manager to remove these cached
                  .parcel files after they are extracted and placed in
                  /opt/cloudera/parcels/. It is not mandatory to keep these
                temporary files but keeping them avoids the need to transfer the
                  .parcel file from the Cloudera Manager Server repository should
                you need to extract the parcel again for any reason. To configure this
                behavior in the Cloudera Manager Administration Console, select
                    Administration > Settings > Parcels > Retain
                    Downloaded Parcel Files


Host Parcel Directory (/opt/cloudera/parcels)
Managed cluster hosts running a Cloudera Manager Agent extract parcels from
                the /opt/cloudera/parcel-cache directory into this path upon parcel
                activation. Many critical system symlinks point to files in this path and you should
                never manually manipulate its contents. Sizing and PlanningProvide
                sufficient space on each host to hold all the parcels you distribute to each host.
                Be aware that the typical Runtime or CDH parcel size is approximately 2 GB per
                parcel, and some third party parcels can exceed 3 GB. If you maintain various
                versions of parcels staged before and after upgrading, be aware of the disk space
                implications.You can configure Cloudera Manager to automatically remove older
                parcels when they are no longer in use. As an administrator you can always manually
                delete parcel versions not in use, but configuring these settings can handle the
                deletion automatically, in case you forget. To configure this behavior in the
                Cloudera Manager Administration Console, select
                    Administration > Settings > Parcels
                and configure the following property:
Automatically Remove Old Parcels

This parameter controls whether parcels for old versions of an activated
                      product should be removed from a cluster when they are no longer in use. 
The default value is Disabled. 

Number of Old Parcel Versions to Retain

If you enable Automatically Remove Old Parcels, this
                      setting specifies the number of old parcels to keep. Any old parcels beyond
                      this value are removed. If this property is set to zero, no old parcels are
                      retained.
The default value is 3.




Table 2. Management Service Lifecycle - Space Reclamation Tasks

Task
Description



Activity Monitor (One-time)

The Activity Monitor only works against a MapReduce (MR1) service, not YARN. So if
                your deployment has fully migrated to YARN and no longer uses a MapReduce (MR1)
                service, your Activity Monitor database is no longer growing. If you have waited
                longer than the default Activity Monitor retention period (14 days) to address this
                point, then the Activity Monitor has already purged it all for you and your database
                is mostly empty. If your deployment meets these conditions, consider cleaning up by
                dropping the Activity Monitor database (again, only when you are satisfied that you
                no longer need the data or have confirmed that it is no longer in use) and the
                Activity Monitor role.



Service Monitor and Host Monitor (One-time)

For those who used Cloudera Manager version 4.x and have now upgraded to version
                5.x: The Service Monitor and Host Monitor were migrated from their
                previously-configured RDBMS into a dedicated time series store used solely by each
                of these roles respectively. After this happens, there is still legacy database
                connection information in the configuration for these roles. This was used to allow
                for the initial migration but is no longer being used for any active work.
After the above migration has taken place, the RDBMS databases previously used by
                the Service Monitor and Host Monitor are no longer used. Space occupied by these
                databases is now recoverable. If appropriate in your environment (and you are
                satisfied that you have long-term backups or do not need the data on disk any
                longer), you can drop those databases.



Ongoing Space Reclamation

Cloudera Management Services are automatically rolling up, purging or otherwise
                consolidating aged data for you in the background. Configure retention and purging
                limits per-role to control how and when this occurs. These configurations are
                discussed per-entity above. Adjust the default configurations to meet your space
                limitations or retention needs.



Log File Storage Space
All cluster hosts write out separate log files for each role instance assigned
      to the host. Cluster administrators can monitor and manage the disk space used by these roles
      and configure log rotation to prevent log files from consuming too much disk space.

Parent topic: Storage Space Planning for Cloudera Manager