Trial InstallationCloudera Docs
Trial Installation
These topics provide instructions for installing the trial version of CDP Private Cloud Base  in
    a non-production environment for demonstration and proof-of-concept use cases. 
In these procedures, Cloudera Manager automates
      the installation of the JDK, Cloudera Manager Server, an embedded
      PostgreSQL database, Cloudera Manager Agent, Cloudera Runtime, and other
      managed services on cluster hosts. Cloudera Manager also configures
      databases for the Cloudera Manager Server and Hive Metastore, Ranger, DAS,
      and for Cloudera Management Service roles.
This installation method is recommended for trial deployments, but is not supported
      for production deployments because it is not designed to scale. To use this method, server and
      cluster hosts must satisfy the following requirements:

All hosts must have a supported
          operating system installed.
You must be able to log in to the Cloudera Manager Server host using the
          root user account or an account that has passwordless
          sudo privileges.
The Cloudera Manager Server host must have uniform SSH access on the
        same port to all hosts. For more information, see Runtime and Cloudera Manager Networking
          and Security Requirements.
All hosts must have access to standard package repositories for the operating system and
        either archive.cloudera.com or a local repository with the required
        installation files.
SELinux must be disabled or set to permissive mode before running the installer.


Related informationCDP Private Cloud Base Trial Download InformationCDP Private Cloud Base Installation GuideInstalling a Trial ClusterIn this procedure, Cloudera Manager automates the installation of the Oracle JDK,     Cloudera Manager Server, embedded PostgreSQL database, Cloudera Manager Agent, Runtime, and     managed service software on cluster hosts. Cloudera Manager also configures databases for the     Cloudera Manager Server and Hive Metastore and optionally for Cloudera Management Service     roles.Stopping the Embedded PostgreSQL DatabaseTo stop the embedded PostgreSQL database, stop the services and servers in the order     listed below. Starting the Embedded PostgreSQL DatabaseTo start the embedded PostgreSQL database, start the servers and services in the order     listed below.Changing Embedded PostgreSQL Database PasswordsThe embedded PostgreSQL database has generated user accounts and passwords. You can     change a password associated PostgreSQL database account.Migrating from the Cloudera Manager Embedded PostgreSQL Database Server to an External PostgreSQL DatabaseIf you have already used the embedded PostgreSQL database and you are unable to redeploy     a fresh cluster, you must migrate the embedded PostgreSQL database sever to an external     PostgreSQL database.