Set Up a Cluster Using the WizardCloudera Docs
Set Up a Cluster Using the Wizard
After completing the Cluster Installation wizard, the
      Cluster Setup wizard automatically starts. The following sections guide
    you through each page of the wizard.
Select Services
The Select Services page allows you to select
        the services you want to install and configure. Make sure that you have
        the appropriate license key for the services you want to use. 
importantIf you will be including the
      Apache Atlas or Apache Ranger services along with the Solr service, note
      the following:

During this initial cluster setup install only Apache Atlas and/or Apache Ranger (or
            one of the Data Engineering, Data Mart, or Operational Database Base cluster
            options).
Ranger requires Kerberos, as the wizard reminds you:



After the cluster setup is complete, use the Cloudera Manager
            Admin Console to add the Solr service to the cluster. See Adding a Service.


You can choose from:

Regular (Base) Clusters

Data Engineering
Process develop, and serve predictive models.
Services included: HDFS, YARN, YARN Queue Manager, Ranger, Atlas,
            Hive, Hive on Tez, Spark, Oozie, Hue, and Data Analytics Studio
Data Mart
Browse, query, and explore your data in an interactive way.
Services included: HDFS, Ranger, Atlas, Hive, and Hue
Operational Database
Real-time insights for modern data-driven business.
Services included: HDFS, Ranger, Atlas, and HBase
Custom Services
Choose your own services. Services required by chosen services
            will automatically be included. 


Compute Clusters

Data Engineering
Process develop, and serve predictive models.
Services included: Spark, Oozie, Hive on Tez, Data Analytics
            Studio, HDFS, YARN, and YARN Queue Manager
Spark
Spark for Compute
 
Services included: Core Configuration, Spark, Oozie, YARN, and
            YARN Queue Manager
Streams Messaging (Simple)
Simple Kafka cluster for streams messaging
Services included: Kafka, Schema Registry, and Zookeeper
Streams Messaging (Full)
Advanced Kafka cluster with monitoring and replication services
            for streams messaging
Services included: Kafka, Schema Registry, Streams Messaging
            Manager, Streams Replication Manager, Cruise Control, and
            Zookeeper
Custom Services
Choose your own services. Services required by chosen services
            will automatically be included.



After selecting the services you want to add, click
          Continue. The Assign
          Roles page displays.

Assign Roles
The Assign Roles page suggests role assignments for the hosts in
        your cluster. You can click on the hostname for a role to select a different host. You can
        also click the View By Host button to see all the roles assigned to a
        host.
To review the recommended role assignments, see Recommended Cluster Hosts and Role
          Distribution.
After assigning all of the roles for your services, click Continue.
        The Setup Database page displays.

Setup Database
When using the Cloudera Manager installer with the embedded database, the Setup
          Database page is pre-populated with the database names and passwords. Click
          Test Connection to validate the settings. If the connection is
        successful, a green checkmark and the word Successful appears next to
        each service. If there are any problems, the error is reported next to the service that
        failed to connect. Some databases will be created in a future step. For these, the words
          Skipped. Cloudera Manager will create this database in a later
          step. appear next to the green checkmark.
After verifying that each connection is successful, click Continue.
        The Review Changes page displays.

Enter Required Parameters
The Enter Required Parameters page lists required parameters for DAS,
        the Cloudera Manager API client, and Ranger.
The DAS database hostname, database name, database username, and database password were

        configured when you created the required DAS database. The default database name is “das”

        and the default database user is “das”.
If you do not have an existing user for the Cloudera Manager API client, use the default
        username and password "admin" for both the The Existing Cloudera Manager API
          Client Username and The Existing Cloudera Manager API Client
          Password.
The Ranger Admin user, Usersync user, Tagsync User, and KMS Keyadmin User are created
        during cluster deployment. In this page you must give a password for each of these users. 
notePasswords for the Ranger Admin, Usersync, Tagsync, and KMS Keyadmin users must be a
        minimum of 8 characters long, with at least one alphabetic and one numeric character. The
        following characters are not valid: " ' \ ` ´.
The Ranger database host, name, user, and user password were configured when you created
        the required Ranger database. If you ran the gen_embedded_ranger_db.sh
        script to create the Ranger database, the output of the script contained the host and
        database user password. Enter those here. The default database name is "ranger" and the
        default database user is "rangeradmin."

Review Changes
The Review Changes page lists default and suggested settings for
        several configuration parameters, including data directories.
warningDo not place DataNode data directories on NAS devices. When resizing an
        NAS, block replicas can be deleted, which results in missing blocks.
Review and make any necessary changes, and then click Continue. The
          Command Details page displays.

Command Details
The Command Details page lists the details of the First
          Run command. You can expand the running commands to view the details of any
        step, including log files and command output. You can filter the view by selecting
          Show All Steps, Show Only Failed Steps, or
          Show Running Steps.
After the First Run command completes, click
          Continue to go to the Summary page.

Summary
The Summary page reports the success or failure of the setup wizard.
        Click Finish to complete the wizard. The installation is
        complete.
Cloudera recommends that you change the default password as soon as possible by clicking
        the logged-in username at the top right of the home screen and clicking Change
          Password.


Parent topic: Installing a Trial Cluster