Additional Steps for Apache RangerCloudera Docs
Additional Steps for Apache Ranger
After installing Cloudera Manager and adding a cluster, there are
    additional steps required to complete the installation of Apache
    Ranger.
Related informationConfigure a resource-based policy: SolrEnabling Solr clients to authenticate with a secure SolrUpdate Ranger audit configration parametersParent topic: Production Installation
Enable Plugins

The Ranger plugins for HDFS and Solr may
        not be enabled by default. Ranger plugins enable Cloudera Manager stack
        components – such as HDFS and Solr – to connect to Ranger and access its
        authorization and audit services. Verify that the HDFS and Solr plugins
        are enabled after you install and start the Ranger service.

To enable the HDFS plugin:
Login to Cloudera Manager.
Go to the HDFS Service status page.
Click the Configuration
                tab.
Search for the Enable Ranger
                  Authorization configuration
              property.
If the Enable Ranger Authorization
                  property is not selected, select it and save the
                changes. 
Go to the Ranger Service status page and click
                    Actions > Setup
                    Ranger Plugin
              Service.
Restart the HDFS service.
To enable the Ranger Solr plugin:
Login to Cloudera Manager.
Go to the Solr Service status page.
Click the Configuration
                tab.
Search for the Enable Ranger
                  Authorization configuration
              property.
If the Enable Ranger Authorization
                  property is not selected, select it and save the
                changes.
noteDo not select the Ranger Service dependency parameter. This is used for
                  enabling a Solr service instance that is not used by the Ranger service.

Restart the Solr service.




Add Solr WebUI Users 

Add the username of any users to the Ranger Solr policy who
            should have access to the Solr Web UI in the Ranger Policy for Solr.
            The user should have full access privileges.



Update the Time-to-live configuration for Ranger Audits
How to change the default time settings that control how long Ranger keeps audit data
      collected by solr.

From Cloudera Manager choose Ranger > Configuration.

In Search, type
            ranger.audit.solr.config, then press
            Return.

In ranger.audit.solr.config.ttl, set the the number of
            days to keep audit data.

In ranger.audit.solr.config.delete.trigger set the
            number and units (days, minutes, hours, or seconds) to keep data for expired
            documents

Refresh the configuration, using one of the following two options:


Click Refresh Configuration, as prompted or, if
                Refresh Configuration does not appear,


In Actions, click Update Solr
                config-set for Ranger, then confirm.





