Required DatabasesCloudera Docs
Required Databases
The following components all require databases: Cloudera Manager Server, Oozie Server,
    Sqoop Server, Reports Manager, Hive Metastore Server, Hue Server, DAS server, Ranger, Schema
    Registry, and Streams Messaging Manager . 
  
The type of data contained in the databases and their relative sizes are as follows:

Cloudera Manager Server - Contains all the information about services
        you have configured and their role assignments, all configuration
        history, commands, users, and running processes. This relatively small
        database (< 100 MB) is the most important to back up.importantWhen you restart processes, the
          configuration for each of the services is redeployed using information
          saved in the Cloudera Manager database. If this information is not
          available, your cluster cannot start or function correctly. You must
          schedule and maintain regular backups of the Cloudera Manager database
          to recover the cluster in the event of the loss of this database.
        
Oozie Server - Contains Oozie workflow, coordinator, and bundle data.
        Can grow very large. (Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH 6
        clusters.)
Sqoop Server - Contains entities such as the connector, driver, links
        and jobs. Relatively small. (Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH
        6 clusters.)
Reports Manager - Tracks disk utilization and processing activities
        over time. Medium-sized.
Hive Metastore Server - Contains Hive metadata. Relatively small.
Hue Server - Contains user account information, job submissions, and
        Hive queries. Relatively small.
Sentry Server - Contains
        authorization metadata. Relatively small.
Cloudera Navigator Audit Server
        - Contains auditing information. In large clusters, this database can
        grow large.(Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH 6
        clusters.)
Cloudera Navigator Metadata
        Server - Contains authorization, policies, and audit report metadata.
        Relatively small.(Only available when installing CDH 5 or CDH 6
        clusters.)
DAS server - Contains Hive and
        Tez event logs and DAG information. Can grow very large.
Ranger Admin - Contains
        administrative information such as Ranger users, groups, and access
        policies. Medium-sized.
Schema Registry - Contains the schemas and their
        metadata, all the versions and branches. Usually small, but can be large when a lot of
        schemas are in use.importantFor the Schema Registry database, you must set
          collation to be case sensitive.
Streams Messaging Manager Server - Contains Kafka
        metadata, stores metrics, and alert definitions. Relatively small.

The Host Monitor and Service Monitor services use local disk-based datastores. 
The JDBC connector for your database must be installed on the host
      where you assign the Reports Manager role.
For instructions on installing and configuring databases for Cloudera Manager, Runtime, and
      other managed services, see the instructions for the type of database you want to use.

Related informationDatabase RequirementsParent topic: Step 5. Install and Configure Databases