Select ServicesCloudera Docs
Select Services
The Select Services page allows you to select the services you
    want to install and configure. 
After selecting the services you want to add, click Continue. The
        Assign Roles page displays.
importantIf you will be including the
      Apache Atlas or Apache Ranger services along with the Solr service, note
      the following:

During this initial cluster setup install only Apache Atlas and/or Apache Ranger (or
            one of the Data Engineering, Data Mart, or Operational Database Base cluster
            options).
Ranger requires Kerberos, as the wizard reminds you:



After the cluster setup is complete, use the Cloudera Manager
            Admin Console to add the Solr service to the cluster. See Adding a Service.


Choose one of the following:
Regular (Base) Clusters

Data Engineering
Process develop, and serve predictive models.
Services included: HDFS, YARN, YARN Queue Manager, Ranger, Atlas,
            Hive, Hive on Tez, Spark, Oozie, Hue, and Data Analytics Studio
Data Mart
Browse, query, and explore your data in an interactive way.
Services included: HDFS, Ranger, Atlas, Hive, and Hue
Operational Database
Real-time insights for modern data-driven business.
Services included: HDFS, Ranger, Atlas, and HBase
Custom Services
Choose your own services. Services required by chosen services
            will automatically be included. 


Compute Clusters

Data Engineering
Process develop, and serve predictive models.
Services included: Spark, Oozie, Hive on Tez, Data Analytics
            Studio, HDFS, YARN, and YARN Queue Manager
Spark
Spark for Compute
 
Services included: Core Configuration, Spark, Oozie, YARN, and
            YARN Queue Manager
Streams Messaging (Simple)
Simple Kafka cluster for streams messaging
Services included: Kafka, Schema Registry, and Zookeeper
Streams Messaging (Full)
Advanced Kafka cluster with monitoring and replication services
            for streams messaging
Services included: Kafka, Schema Registry, Streams Messaging
            Manager, Streams Replication Manager, Cruise Control, and
            Zookeeper
Custom Services
Choose your own services. Services required by chosen services
            will automatically be included.



Parent topic: Step 8: Set Up a Cluster Using the Wizard