Manually Installing OpenJDKCloudera Docs
Manually Installing OpenJDK
Before installing Cloudera Manager and Runtime, perform the steps in this section to
    install OpenJDK on all hosts in your cluster(s).

Note that the path for the default truststore for OpenJDK 8 is
          jre/lib/security/cacerts.
The package names used when installing the OpenJDK 11 and OpenJDK
            8 are different and are noted in the steps below.
The path for the default truststore has changed from (OpenJDK 8)
              jre/lib/security/cacerts to (OpenJDK 11)
              lib/security/cacerts

See the following blog post for general information about
            migrating to Java 11: All You Need to Know For Migrating
              To Java 11.

importantWhen you install CDP Private Cloud Base , Cloudera Manager includes an option
        to install Oracle JDK. De-select this option before continuing with the installation.
You must install a supported version of OpenJDK. If your deployment uses a version of
        OpenJDK lower than 1.8.0_181, see TLS Protocol Error with OpenJDK.
noteIf you intend to enable Auto-TLS, note the following: You can specify a PEM file
          containing trusted CA certificates to be imported into the Auto-TLS truststore. If you
          want to use the certificates in the cacerts truststore that comes with OpenJDK, you must
          convert the truststore to PEM format first. However, OpenJDK ships with some intermediate
          certificates that cannot be imported into the Auto-TLS truststore. You must remove these
          certificates from the PEM file before importing the PEM file into the Auto-TLS truststore.
          This is not required when upgrading to OpenJDK from a cluster where Auto-TLS has already
          been enabled.


Log in to each host and run the command for the version of the JDK you want to
          install:


RHEL

OpenJDK
                8sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk-devel
OpenJDK
                11su -c yum install java-11-openjdk-devel
Ubuntu
OpenJDK
                8sudo apt-get install openjdk-8-jdk
OpenJDK
                11sudo apt-get install openjdk-11-jdk
SLES
OpenJDK
                8sudo zypper install java-1_8_0-openjdk-devel
OpenJDK
                11sudo zypper install java-11-openjdk-devel


Tune the JDK (OpenJDK 11 only.)
OpenJDK 11 uses new defaults for garbage
            collection and other Java options specified when launching Java
            processes. Due to these changes you may need to tune the garbage
            collection by adjusting the Java options used to run cluster
            services, which are configured separately for each service using the
            service's configuration parameters. To locate the correct parameter,
            log in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, go to the cluster and
            service you want to configure and search for "Java Configuration
            Options". 
When using OpenJDK 11, Cloudera Manager and
            most Cloudera Runtime services use G1GC as the default method of
            garbage collection. Java 8 used "ConcurrentMarkSweep" (CMS) for
            garbage collection. When using G1GC, the pauses for garbage
            collection are shorter, so components will usually be more
            responsive, but they are more sensitive to JVMs with overcommitted
            memory usage. See Tuning JVM Garbage Collection. 


Parent topic: Step 2: Install Java Development Kit