Production InstallationCloudera Docs
Production Installation
These topics provide procedures for installing CDP Private Cloud Base  in a
    production environment. 


Related informationCDP Private Cloud Base Installation GuideBefore You InstallBefore you begin a production installation of Cloudera Manager,     Cloudera Runtime, and other managed services, review the CDP Private Cloud Base Requirements and Supported Versions, in addition to the     Cloudera Data Platform Release Notes.Production Installation: Installing Cloudera Manager, Cloudera Runtime, and Managed ServicesThis procedure is recommended for installing Cloudera Manager and     Cloudera Runtime for production environments. For a non-production trial     install see Installing the CDP Private Cloud Base Trial.Step 1: Configure a Repository for Cloudera ManagerCloudera Manager is installed using package management tools such as       yum for RHEL compatible systems. These tools depend on access to repositories     to install software. Cloudera maintains Internet-accessible repositories for Runtime and     Cloudera Manager installation files. Step 2: Install Java Development KitCDP Private Cloud Base  requires a JDK installed on all hosts., you can     either install OpenJDK or a Oracle JDK directly from Oracle. Step 3: Install Cloudera Manager ServerCloudera Manager is installed on the Cloudera Manager Server host using     packages.Step 4: Install Python 3.8 for HueCertain services, such as Hue, in CDP 7.1.8 and higher use Python 3.8. You must         install Python 3.8 on all the hosts running the affected services after you have installed         Cloudera Manager and before adding the services to your cluster.Step 5. Install and Configure DatabasesCloudera Manager uses various databases and datastores to store information about the     Cloudera Manager configuration, as well as information such as the health of the system, or task     progress.Step 6: Set up and configure the Cloudera Manager databaseCloudera Manager Server includes the scm_prepare_database.sh script     that can create and configure a database.Step 7: Install Runtime and Other SoftwareAfter you set up the Cloudera Manager database, start Cloudera Manager Server and log     in to the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. Then proceed through the installation     wizard.Step 8: Set Up a Cluster Using the WizardAfter you complete the Add Cluster - Installation wizard, the       Add Cluster - Configuration wizard automatically starts. The following     sections guide you through each page of the wizard.Step 9: (optional) Enable high availability for Cloudera Manager(Recommended) Enable Auto-TLSAuto-TLS greatly simplifies the process of enabling and managing TLS encryption on your     cluster. (Recommended) Enable KerberosKerberos is an authentication protocol that relies on cryptographic mechanisms to handle interactions between a requesting client and server, greatly reducing the risk of impersonation. Additional Steps for Apache RangerAfter installing Cloudera Manager and adding a cluster, there are     additional steps required to complete the installation of Apache     Ranger.Installing Apache Knox This document provides instructions on how to install Apache     Knox using the CDP Private Cloud Base installation     process. Setting Up Data at Rest Encryption for HDFSThis section describes how to enable end-to-end data encryption to-and-from HDFS. For     optimal performance, High Availability (HA) is also provided.Installing Cloudera Navigator EncryptLearn about installing Navigator Encrypt, setting up TLS certificates on a Navigator     Encrypt client, entropy requirements , and uninstalling and reinstalling NavEncrypt.Installing Cloudera Navigator Key HSMCloudera Navigator Key HSM is a universal hardware security module (HSM) driver that     translates between the target HSM platform and Cloudera Navigator Key Trustee Server. Navigator     Key HSM allows you to use a Key Trustee Server to securely store and retrieve encryption keys     and other secure objects, without being limited solely to a hardware-based platform.Installing Ranger RMSRanger Resource Mapping Server (RMS) enables automatic translation of access policies     from Hive to HDFS. 