Enter Required ParametersCloudera Docs
Enter Required Parameters
The Enter Required Parameters page lists
    required parameters for DAS, the Cloudera Manager API client, Hive, and
    Ranger.
Atlas
The Atlas Admin user, Ranger Admin user, Usersync user, Tagsync user,
        and KMS Keyadmin user are created during cluster deployment. In this
        page you must give a password for each of these users.
notePasswords for the Atlas Admin, Ranger Admin, Usersync, Tagsync, and
        KMS Keyadmin users must be a minimum of 8 characters long, with at least
        one alphabetic and one numeric character. The following characters are
        not valid: " ' \ ` ´.

Cloudera Manager API Client
If you do not have an existing user for the Cloudera Manager API
        client, use the default username and password "admin" for both the
          The Existing Cloudera Manager API Client Username
        and The Existing Cloudera Manager API Client
          Password.

DAS
The DAS database hostname, database name, database username, and
        database password were configured when you created the required DAS
        database. The default database name is “das” and the default database
        user is “das”.

Hive
If your database supports TLS connections, then configure the following parameters:
Enable TLS/SSL to the Hive Metastore
              Database parameter,
Set the Hive Metastore Client SSL/TLS Trust Store
              File parameter to a JKS truststore file that contains
            a CA certificate trusting the database's certificate. 
Set the Hive Metastore Client SSL/TLS Trust Store
              Password parameter to that truststore's password.


Ranger
The Ranger database host, name, user, and user password were configured
        when you created the required Ranger database. If you ran the
          gen_embedded_ranger_db.sh script to create the Ranger
        database, the output of the script contained the host and database user
        password. Enter those here. The default database name is "ranger" and
        the default database user is "rangeradmin."


Parent topic: Step 8: Set Up a Cluster Using the Wizard