Production Installation: Installing Cloudera Manager, Cloudera Runtime, and Managed ServicesCloudera Docs
Production Installation: Installing Cloudera Manager, Cloudera Runtime, and Managed
    Services
This procedure is recommended for installing Cloudera Manager and
    Cloudera Runtime for production environments. For a non-production trial
    install see Installing the CDP Private Cloud Base Trial.
Before you begin the installation, make sure you have reviewed the requirements and other
      considerations described in Before You Install.

importantThe Cloudera Manager agent uses Python version 2
        and if the Operating System tries to use Python 3 there could be conflicts. You must set
        Python 2 as the environment variable. Use the following steps to proceed further:
ssh to the host.
Run #alternatives --set python /usr/bin/python2
Restart the agent: systemctl restart cloudera-scm-agent
Run the host validation.
Inspect Network Performance


If you want to install Cloudera Manager with high availability, there are several additional
      steps, including installing the Cloudera Manager software on an additional host. See Configuring Cloudera Manager for High
        Availability.importantDo not start the additional instance of Cloudera
      Manager until all of the installation steps including setting up a cluster are completed.
The general steps in the installation procedure are as
      follows:
Step 1: Configure a Repository for Cloudera Manager
Step 2: Install Java Development Kit
Step 3: Install Cloudera Manager Server
Step 4: Install Python 3.8 for Hue
Step 5. Install and Configure Databases
Step 6: Set up and configure the Cloudera Manager database
Step 7: Install Runtime and Other Software
Step 8: Set Up a Cluster Using the Wizard
Step 9: (optional) Enable high availability for Cloudera Manager


Related informationUse case 1: Use Cloudera Manager to generate internal CA and corresponding
              certificatesUse case 2: Enabling Auto-TLS with an intermediate CA
              signed by an existing Root CAUse case 3: Enabling Auto-TLS with Existing CertificatesParent topic: Production Installation