Storage Space Planning for Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Storage Space Planning for Cloudera Manager
This topic helps you plan for the storage needs and data storage locations used by the
    Cloudera Manager Server and the Cloudera Management Service to store metrics and
    data.
Minimum Required Role:
Full
            Administrator. This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
Cloudera Manager tracks metrics of services, jobs, and applications in many background
      processes. All of these metrics require storage. Depending on the size of your organization,
      this storage can be local or remote, disk-based or in a database, managed by you or by another
      team in another location.
Most system administrators are aware of common locations like /var/log/ and
      the need for these locations to have adequate space. Failing to plan for the storage needs of
      all components of the Cloudera Manager Server and the Cloudera Management Service can
      negatively impact your cluster in the following ways:

The cluster might not be able to retain historical operational data to meet internal
        requirements.
The cluster might miss critical audit information that was not gathered or retained for
        the required length of time.
Administrators might be unable to research past events or health status.
Administrators might not have historical MR1, YARN, or Impala usage data when they need to
        reference or report on them later.
There might be gaps in metrics collection and charts.
The cluster might experience data loss due to filling storage locations to 100% of
        capacity. The effects of such an event can impact many other components.

The main theme here is that you must architect your data storage needs well in advance. You
      must inform your operations staff about your critical data storage locations for each host so
      that they can provision your infrastructure adequately and back it up appropriately. Make sure
      to document the discovered requirements in your internal build documentation and run
      books.
This topic describes both local disk storage and RDBMS storage. This distinction is made both
      for storage planning and also to inform migration of roles from one host to another, preparing
      backups, and other lifecycle management events.
The following tables provide details about each individual Cloudera
      Management service to enable Cloudera Manager administrators to make appropriate storage and
      lifecycle planning decisions.
Table 1. Cloudera Manager Server

Configuration Topic
Cloudera Manager Server Configuration



Default Storage Location
RDBMS:Any Supported RDBMS.Disk:Cloudera Manager
                Server Local Data Storage Directory (command_storage_path) on the
                host where the Cloudera Manager Server is configured to run. This local path is used
                by Cloudera Manager for storing data, including command result files. Critical
                configurations are not stored in this location.Default setting:
                  /var/lib/cloudera-scm-server/


Storage Configuration Defaults, Minimum, or Maximum
There are no direct storage defaults relevant to this entity.


Where to Control Data Retention or Size
The size of the Cloudera Manager Server database varies depending on the number
              of managed hosts and the number of discrete commands that have been run in the
              cluster. To configure the size of the retained command results in the Cloudera Manager
              Administration Console, select
                  Administration > Settings
              and edit the following property: 
Command Eviction Age 
Length of time after which inactive commands are evicted from the database.
                      Default is two years.



Sizing, Planning & Best Practices
The Cloudera Manager Server database is the most vital configuration store in a
              Cloudera Manager deployment. This database holds the configuration for clusters,
              services, roles, and other necessary information that defines a deployment of Cloudera
              Manager and its managed hosts.Make sure that you perform regular, verified,
                remotely-stored backups of the Cloudera Manager Server database.


Table 2. Cloudera Management Service - Service Monitor Configuration

Configuration Topic
Service Monitor Configuration



Default Storage Location
/var/lib/cloudera-service-monitor/ on the host where the Service
              Monitor role is configured to run.


Storage Configuration Defaults / Minimum / Maximum


10 GiB Services Time Series Storage
1 GiB Impala Query Storage
1 GiB YARN Application Storage

Total: ~12 GiB Minimum (No Maximum)



Where to Control Data Retention or Size

Service Monitor data growth is controlled by configuring the maximum amount of
                storage space it can use.
To configure data retention in Cloudera Manager Administration Console:

Go the Cloudera Management Service.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > Service Monitor or Cloudera Management Service
                      (Service-Wide).
Select Category > Main.
Locate the propertyName property or
                  search for it by typing its name in the Search box.
Time-Series Storage 

The approximate amount of disk space dedicated to storing time series and
                          health data. When the store has reached its maximum size, it deletes older
                          data to make room for newer data. The disk usage is approximate because
                          the store only begins deleting data when it reaches the limit.
Note that Cloudera Manager stores time-series data at a number of
                          different data granularities, and these granularities have different
                          effective retention periods. The Service Monitor stores metric data not
                          only as raw data points but also as ten-minute, hourly, six-hourly, daily,
                          and weekly summary data points. Raw data consumes the bulk of the
                          allocated storage space and weekly summaries consume the least. Raw data
                          is retained for the shortest amount of time while weekly summary points
                          are unlikely to ever be deleted.
Select Cloudera Management
                              Service > Charts Library
                          tab in Cloudera Manager for information about how space is consumed within
                          the Service Monitor. These pre-built charts also show information about
                          the amount of data retained and time window covered by each data
                          granularity.

Impala Storage

The approximate amount of disk space dedicated to storing Impala query
                          data. When the store reaches its maximum size, it deletes older data to
                          make room for newer queries. The disk usage is approximate because the
                          store only begins deleting data when it reaches the limit.

YARN Storage

The approximate amount of disk space dedicated to storing YARN
                          application data. When the store reaches its maximum size, it deletes
                          older data to make room for newer applications. The disk usage is
                          approximate because Cloudera Manager only begins deleting data when it
                          reaches the limit.


Enter a Reason for
            change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.




Sizing, Planning, and Best Practices
The Service Monitor gathers metrics about configured roles and services in your
              cluster and also runs active health tests. These health tests run regardless of idle
              and use periods, because they are always relevant. The Service Monitor gathers metrics
              and health test results regardless of the level of activity in the cluster. This data
              continues to grow, even in an idle cluster. 


Table 3. Cloudera Management Service - Host Monitor

Configuration Topic
Host Monitor Configuration



Default Storage Location
/var/lib/cloudera-host-monitor/ on the host where the Host
              Monitor role is configured to run.


Storage Configuration Defaults / Minimum/ Maximum
Default (and minimum): 10 GiB Host Time Series Storage


Where to Control Data Retention or Size
Host Monitor data growth is controlled by configuring the maximum amount of
              storage space it can use.See Data Storage for Monitoring
                Data.To configure these data retention configuration properties in the
                Cloudera Manager Administration Console:
Go the Cloudera Management Service.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > Host Monitor or Cloudera Management Service
                        (Service-Wide).
Select Category > Main.
Locate each property or search for it by typing its name in the Search box.
Time-Series Storage

The approximate amount of disk space dedicated to storing time series
                            and health data. When the store reaches its maximum size, it deletes
                            older data to make room for newer data. The disk usage is approximate
                            because the store only begins deleting data when it reaches the
                            limit.
Note that Cloudera Manager stores time-series data at a number of
                            different data granularities, and these granularities have different
                            effective retention periods. Host Monitor stores metric data not only as
                            raw data points but also as summaries of ten minute, one hour, six hour,
                            one day, and one week increments. Raw data consumes the bulk of the
                            allocated storage space and weekly summaries consume the least. Raw data
                            is retained for the shortest amount of time, while weekly summary points
                            are unlikely to ever be deleted.
See the Cloudera Management Service
                                 > Charts Library tab
                            in Cloudera Manager for information on how space is consumed within the
                            Host Monitor. These pre-built charts also show information about the
                            amount of data retained and the time window covered by each data
                            granularity.


Enter a Reason for
            change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.



Sizing, Planning and Best Practices
The Host Monitor gathers metrics about host-level items of interest (for example:
              disk space usage, RAM, CPU usage, swapping, etc) and also informs host health tests.
              The Host Monitor gathers metrics and health test results regardless of the level of
              activity in the cluster. This data continues to grow fairly linearly, even in an idle
              cluster.


Table 4. Cloudera Management Service - Event Server

Configuration Topic
Event Server Configuration



Default Storage Location
/var/lib/cloudera-scm-eventserver/ on the host where the Event
              Server role is configured to run.


Storage Configuration Defaults
5,000,000 events retained


Where to Control Data Retention or Minimum /Maximum

The amount of storage space the Event Server uses is influenced by configuring how
                many discrete events it can retain.
To configure data retention in Cloudera Manager Administration Console, 
Go the Cloudera Management Service.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > Event Server or Cloudera Management Service
                        (Service-Wide).
Select
                      Category > Main.
Edit the following property:
Maximum Number of Events in the Event Server Store

The maximum size of the Event Server store, in events. When this size
                            is exceeded, events are deleted starting with the oldest first until the
                            size of the store is below this threshold


Enter a Reason for
            change, and then click Save
            Changes to commit the changes.




Sizing, Planning, and Best Practices

The Event Server is a managed Lucene index that collects relevant events that
                happen within your cluster, such as results of health tests, log events that are
                created when a log entry matches a set of rules for identifying messages of interest
                and makes them available for searching, filtering and additional action. You can
                view and filter events on the Diagnostics
                     > Events tab of the Cloudera
                Manager Administration Console. You can also poll this data using the Cloudera
                Manager API.
noteThe Cloudera Management Service role Alert Publisher sources all the content for
                its work by regularly polling the Event Server for entries that are marked to be
                sent out using SNMP or SMTP(S). The Alert Publisher is not discussed because it has
                no noteworthy storage requirements of its own.



Table 5. Cloudera Management Service - Reports Manager

Configuration Topic
Reports Manager Configuration



Default Storage Location
RDBMS:Any Supported RDBMS.
                  Disk:/var/lib/cloudera-scm-headlamp/ on the
                host where the Reports Manager role is configured to run.


Storage Configuration Defaults

RDBMS:
There are no configurable parameters to directly control the size of this data
                set.
Disk:
 There are no configurable parameters to directly control the size of this data
                set. The storage utilization depends not only on the size of the HDFS
                fsimage, but also on the HDFS file path complexity. Longer file paths
                contribute to more space utilization.



Where to Control Data Retention or Minimum / Maximum

The Reports Manager uses space in two main locations: on the Reports Manager host
                and on its supporting database. Cloudera recommends that the database be on a
                separate host from the Reports Manager host for process isolation and
                performance.



Sizing, Planning, and Best Practices
Reports Manager downloads the fsimage from the NameNode (every 60 minutes
              by default) and stores it locally to perform operations against, including indexing
              the HDFS filesystem structure. More files and directories results in a larger
                fsimage, which consumes more disk space.Reports Manager has no control
                over the size of the fsimage. If your total HDFS usage trends upward notably
                or you add excessively long paths in HDFS, it might be necessary to revisit and
                adjust the amount of local storage allocated to the Reports Manager. Periodically
                monitor, review, and adjust the local storage allocation.


Table 6. Cloudera Navigator - Navigator Audit Server

Configuration Topic
Navigator Audit Server Configuration



Default Storage Location
Any Supported RDBMS. 


Storage Configuration Defaults
 Default: 90 Days retention


Where to Control Data Retention or Min/Max
Navigator Audit Server storage usage is controlled by configuring how many days
              of data it can retain. Any older data is purged.To configure data retention in the
                Cloudera Manager Administration Console:
Go the Cloudera Management Service.
Click the Configuration tab.
Select Scope > Navigator Audit Server or Cloudera Management Service
                      (Service-Wide).
Select
                    Category > Main.
Locate the Navigator Audit Server Data Expiration Period
                  property or search for it by typing its name in the Search box.
Navigator Audit Server Data Expiration Period
In Navigator Audit Server, purge audit data of various auditable services
                        when the data reaches this age in days. By default, Navigator Audit Server
                        keeps data about audits for 90 days.

Click Save Changes to commit the changes.



Sizing, Planning, and Best Practices
The size of the Navigator Audit Server database directly depends on the number of
              audit events the cluster’s audited services generate. Normally the volume of HDFS
              audits exceeds the volume of other audits (all other components like MRv1, Hive and
              Impala read from HDFS, which generates additional audit events).The average size of
                a discrete HDFS audit event is ~1 KB. For a busy cluster of 50 hosts with ~100K
                audit events generated per hour, the Navigator Audit Server database would consume
                ~2.5 GB per day. To retain 90 days of audits at that level, plan for a database size
                of around 250 GB. If other configured cluster services generate roughly the same
                amount of data as the HDFS audits, plan for the Navigator Audit Server database to
                require around 500 GB of storage for 90 days of data.Notes:
Individual Hive and Impala queries themselves can be very large. Since the query
                  itself is part of an audit event, such audit events consume space in proportion to
                  the length of the query.
The amount of space required increases as activity on the cluster increases. In
                  some cases, Navigator Audit Server databases can exceed 1 TB for 90 days of audit
                  events. Benchmark your cluster periodically and adjust accordingly.
To map Cloudera Navigator versions to Cloudera Manager versions, see
                  Product Compatibility Matrix for Cloudera Navigator.


Table 7. Cloudera Navigator - Navigator Metadata Server

Configuration Topic
Navigator Metadata Server Configuration



Default Storage Location

RDBMS:
Any Supported RDBMS.
Disk:

/var/lib/cloudera-scm-navigator/ on the host where the Navigator
                Metadata Server role is configured to run.



Storage Configuration Defaults

RDBMS:
 There are no exposed defaults or configurations to directly cull or purge the size
                of this data set.
Disk:
 There are no configuration defaults to influence the size of this location. You
                can change the location itself with the Navigator Metadata Server Storage
                  Dir property. The size of the data in this location depends on the
                amount of metadata in the system (HDFS fsimage size, Hive Metastore size) and
                activity on the system (the number of MapReduce Jobs run, Hive queries executed,
                etc).



Where to Control Data Retention or Min/Max

RDBMS:
The Navigator Metadata Server database should be carefully tuned to support large
                volumes of metadata.
Disk:
The Navigator Metadata Server index (an embedded Solr instance) can consume lots of
                disk space at the location specified for the Navigator Metadata Server
                  Storage Dir property. Ongoing maintenance tasks include purging
                metadata from the system.



Sizing, Planning, and Best Practices
Memory:See Navigator Metadata Server
                  Tuning.RDBMS:The database is used to store policies and
                authorization data. The dataset is small, but this database is also used during a
                Solr schema upgrade, where Solr documents are extracted and inserted again in Solr.
                This has same space requirements as above use case, but the space is only used
                temporarily during product upgrades.Use the product compatibility matrix to
                map Cloudera Navigator and Cloudera Manager versions.Disk: This
                filesystem location contains all the metadata that is extracted from managed
                clusters. The data is stored in Solr, so this is the location where Solr stores its
                index and documents. Depending on the size of the cluster, this data can occupy tens
                of gigabytes. A guideline is to look at the size of HDFS fsimage and allocate two to
                three times that size as the initial size. The data here is incremental and
                continues to grow as activity is performed on the cluster. The rate of growth can be
                on order of tens of megabytes per day.


General Performance Notes
When possible:


For entities that use an RDBMS, install the database on a separate host from the service,
          and consolidate roles that use databases on as few servers as possible.


Provide a dedicated spindle to the RDBMS or datastore data directory to avoid disk
          contention with other read/write activity.



Cluster Lifecycle Management with Cloudera ManagerCloudera Manager clusters that use parcels to provide Cloudera Runtime and other     components require adequate disk space in the following locations: Parent topic: Before You Install