Installing Ranger KMS backed by a Database and HACloudera Docs
Installing Ranger KMS backed by a Database and HA
The tasks and steps for installing the Ranger Key Management System (KMS) with High
        Availability (HA) service that uses a database as the backing key store.

This task uses the Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption wizard
                to install a Ranger KMS with HA service that uses a database as the backing key
                store.
The following image shows the Set up HDFS Data At Rest
                    Encryption page. When you select your encryption keys root of trust
                option, a list of tasks that you must do to enable encryption to-and-from HDFS is
                displayed. 
You complete each task independently from the other tasks. Where, the task’s
                    Status column indicates whether the step has been
                completed and the Notes column provides additional context
                for the task. If your Cloudera Manager user account does not have sufficient
                privileges to complete a task, the Notes column indicates the
                privileges that are required. 
When selected, each task contains links to wizards or documentation that help you
                complete the task. If a task is unavailable, due to insufficient privileges or an
                incomplete prerequisite step, no links are present and the
                    Notes column displays the reason. 


noteIt is assumed that you have already created a database on a
                server that does not contain the Cloudera Ranger service. For more information on
                    how to create a database for Ranger KMS, see the Related
                        Information links below.
The Wizard steps are as follows and must be completed in the order listed:
Enable KerberosnoteThe instructions assume that you
                            have enabled Kerberos. If this is not the case, click the link
                            associated with the uncompleted task and follow the Wizard's
                            instructions.
Enable TLS/SSLnoteThe instructions assume that you
                            have enabled TLS. If this is not the case, click the link associated
                            with the uncompleted task and follow the Wizard's
                        instructions.
Add a Ranger KMS Service
Restart the stale services and redeploy the client configuration
Validate the Data Encryption

The following lists the post installation tasks for Installing the Ranger KMS backed
                by a Database and HA:
Update the Ranger KMS backed by a Database service's URL
Create a Ranger Audit Directory


Verify the following:
The cluster in which Cloudera Manager and the Cloudera Ranger service is
                    installed, is up and running.
A Ranger KMS database has been created as the underlying keyStore mechanism.
                    This database must be separate from the Ranger database.
Communication through secure connections is enabled with the Transport Layer
                    Security (TLS) protocol and your network authentication is enabled with the
                    Kerberos protocol. 
You have securely recorded the following backing key store database access
                    credentials, as you will be required to supply them during the installation
                        steps:
The Database name.
The Database hostname.
The user name and password that has full administrative privileges to
                            the backing key store database.



In a supported web browser on the cluster in which the Ranger service is
                    installed, log in to Cloudera Manager as a user with full administrative
                    privileges.

From the Cloudera Manager navigation side-bar, select Administration > Security.

On the Security Status page, click Set up
                        HDFS Data At Rest Encryption.

In the Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption page, select the Ranger
                        Key Management Service backed by Database option.
A list of tasks are displayed at the bottom of the page. To successfully set
                    up HDFS Data at Rest encryption, these tasks must be completed.importantKerberos and TLS
                            must be enabled. If the steps associated with
                        these tasks do not display Completed in the
                            Status column, before continuing, click the link
                        associated with the uncompleted task and follow the Wizard's
                        instructions.

To set up HDFS Encryption, follow the instructions as described below for each
                    of the Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption Wizard's
                    steps. 


Related informationConfiguring a database for Ranger or Ranger KMSTLS/SSL and Its Use of CertificatesEnabling Kerberos Authentication for CDPParent topic: Setting Up Data at Rest Encryption for HDFS
Installing the Ranger KMS Service
The Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption wizard's installation
        step that installs the Ranger Key Management System (KMS) with High Availability (HA)
        service on your cluster.

Describes the steps that install the Ranger Key Management System (KMS) service on
                your cluster and associates it with your backing key store database.


From the Step column in the Set up HDFS Data at Rest
                    Encryption for Cluster page, click Add Ranger KMS
                    Service.
The Add Ranger KMS Service to Cluster Wizard opens.

In the Assign Roles page, verify that the hostname is the required server on
                    which to install the Ranger KMS service by clicking inside the listed server
                    field. By default, this field is populated by the Wizard.  
The Hosts Selected page opens.

In the Hosts Selected page, scroll down and from the
                        Hostname column, locate the hostname that was
                    selected by the Wizard. Notice in the Added Roles column
                    the Ranger KMS Server (RK) role icon. This role is added during the
                    installation.

Do one of the following:


If the pre-selected host is correct, confirm the Wizard's choice by
                            clicking OK.
If the pre-selected host is incorrect, deselect the check box of the
                            Wizard's choice, select the hostname check box of the required server,
                            and then click OK.noteIf
                                you require more than one KMS service, select the hostname check box
                                for each server on which to install a Ranger KMS service.
                            



Back in the Assign Roles page, click Continue.
The Setup Database page opens.

In the Setup Database page, do the following:


In the Database Hostname field, enter the
                            hostname of the backing key store database.
In the Database Name field, enter the name of the
                            backing key store database.
In the Username field, enter the user name that
                            has full administrative privileges to the backing key store
                            database.
In the Password field, enter the password of the
                            user name that has full administrative privileges to the backing key
                            store database.
(Optional) Verify that the credentials you entered are correct by
                            clicking Test Connection.
Click Continue.

The Review Changes page opens.


In the required Ranger KMS Master Key Password field,
                    enter the password that will be used to encrypt the master key.

tipYou can confirm the password's value by
                        clicking the ranger_kms_master_key_password
                        link.


Review the rest of the settings before clicking
                    Continue.

In the Command Details page, monitor the installation of the Ranger KMS server.
                    When the Status displays Finished
                    the Ranger KMS is installed and tested.

tipIf the Ranger KMS start task fails during
                        the First Run Command process, click the Context
                            Ranger KMS link, which opens the Ranger KMS
                        service page. From the Actions list, select
                            Start. 


Click Continue.
The Summary page opens.

Click Finish, which returns you to the Set up HDFS Data
                    at Rest Encryption for Cluster page.

Verify that the Ranger KMS service appears in the Cloudera Manager Clusters
                    components list and that the service has been started.
If the Ranger KMS service was not started by the installation wizard, do the
                    following: 
Go to Cloudera Manager's Home page by clicking the Cloudera Manager
                            icon.
In the Cloudera Manager Clusters components list, locate and click
                                Ranger KMS.
From the Actions menu, click
                                Start.


Adding Ranger KMS to a cluster triggers additional property updates for other
            services. Cloudera Manager may flag these with stale configuration warnings. Restart the
            stale services and redeploy the client configuration.


Restarting the Stale Services and Redeploying the Client Configuration
The Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption wizard's step for
        restarting stale services and redeploying the client configuration.

Describes the steps that restart stale services after installing the Data-at-Rest
                HDFS Ranger KMS service option on your cluster.


From the Step column in the Set up HDFS Data at Rest
                    Encryption for Cluster page, click Restart stale services and
                        redeploy client configuration..
The Stale Configurations page opens.

Click Restart Stale Services.
The restart Stale Services page opens.

Verify that the Re-deploy client configuration check box
                    is selected and click Restart Now. 

In the Command Details page, monitor the restart process. When the
                        Status displays Finished,
                    click Continue, which returns you to the Set up HDFS Data
                    at Rest Encryption for Cluster page.

Validate that the Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service option can successfully
            encrypt your data to-and-from HDFS.


Validating Data Encryption to-and-from HDFS
The Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption wizard's step for
        validating the data encryption to-and-from HDFS.

Describes the steps which verify that the Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service option
                can successfully encrypt your data to-and-from HDFS.


From the Step column in the Set up HDFS Data at Rest
                    Encryption for Cluster page, click Validate Data
                        Encryption.
The Validate Data Encryption page opens, which displays a list of commands and
                    instructions for creating an encryption zone and adding data. 

In a terminal, log in to one of the hosts in your cluster and run each of the
                    following commands:


Create a key and directory by entering the following:

kinit KEY_ADMIN_USER 
hadoop key create mykey1 
hdfs dfs -mkdir /tmp/zonel
Where, KEY_ADMIN_USER is the key administrator
                                whose role can perform the following actions:
Configure HDFS encryption, administer Key Trustee Server,
                                        and manage encryption keys 
Start, stop, and restart Ranger KMS
Configure Ranger KMS Policies
View configuration and monitoring information in Cloudera
                                        Manager 
View service and monitoring information 
View events and logs 
View Replication jobs and snapshot policies 
View YARN applications and Impala queries 




Create a zone and link to the key, by entering the following: 

kinit hdfs hdfs 
hdfs crypto -createZone -keyName mykey1 -path /tmp/zone1 



Create a file, put it in your zone, and verify that the file can be
                            decrypted, by entering the following:

kinit KEY ADMIN_USER
echo "Hello World" > /tmp/helloWorld.txt
hdfs dfs -put /tmp/helloWorld.txt /tmp/zone1
hdfs dfs -cat /tmp/zonel/helloWorld.txt
rm /tmp/helloWorld.txt




Verify that the stored file is encrypted, by entering the
                            following:

kinit hdfs
hdfs dfs -cat /.reserved/raw/tmp/zonel/helloWorld.txt
hdfs dfs -rm -R / tmp/zone1
hdfs crypto -listZones




When completed, click Close, which returns you to the
                    Set up HDFS Data at Rest Encryption for Cluster page.



Post-Tasks for the Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS Service
The post-tasks that you must perform after you have set up the Data-at-Rest HDFS
        Ranger KMS service option.

Describes the post-task steps.
Depending on which Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service option was set up, two or
                more of the following post-tasks must be completed:
Update the Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service's URL
Create a Ranger Audit Directory
(Ranger KMS with Key Trustee Server service only) Update the Authentication
                        Properties and KMS Hadoop cache settings



Update the Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service's URL by doing the following: 


In the Cloudera Manager Clusters components list, locate and click the
                                Ranger service.
Log in to the Ranger Web UI as the Ranger KMS user, whose default user
                            name credential is keyadmin and default password
                                is admin123. 
In the cm_kms service, click the
                                Edit icon and update the KMS
                                URL field value as follows:
In the KMS URL field, enter the URL value
                                    using the following
                                                syntax:kms://http@kms_host1;kms_host2:kms_port/kmsWhere,
                                            
kms_host is the host where either
                                                the Ranger KMS with Key Trustee Server or the Ranger
                                                KMS backed by a database is installed.
kms_port is the port number. By
                                                default, this is 9292. For example,
                                                  kms://http@kms_host1;kms_host2:9292/kmsimportantIf SSL is enabled, use https and port
                                                  number 9494. For
                                                  example:kms://https@kms_host1;kms_host2:9494/kms

To confirm your URL setting, click Test
                                        Connection.
Click Save. 




Create a Ranger Audit Directory by doing the following: 


Depending on which Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service you set up, in
                            the Cloudera Manager Clusters components list, locate and click either
                            the Ranger KMS with Key Trustee Server service or
                            the Ranger KMS service.
From the Actions menu, click Create
                                Ranger Plugin Audit Directory. 
When the Create Ranger Plugin Audit Directory message appears, confirm
                            its creation by clicking Create Ranger Plugin Audit
                                Directory.
Monitor the creation process. When the Status
                            displays Finished, click
                                Close.




