Installing a Java Keystore KMSCloudera Docs
Installing a Java Keystore KMS
The tasks and steps for installing a Java KeyStore Ranger Key Management System (KMS)
        service to the cluster for your HDFS data-at-rest encryption.

Describes how to install a file-based password-protected Java KeyStore KMS service to
                your cluster. The Java KeyStore KMS service uses a password-protected Java KeyStore
                for cryptographic key management. This option does not include HA.
warningThe file-based Java KeyStore root of trust is
                insufficient to provide the security, scalability, and manageability required by
                most production systems. Therefore, Cloudera strongly recommends using the Cloudera
                Ranger KMS backed with a Key Trustee Server and HA option as the root of trust for
                production environments. 
The following image shows the Set up HDFS Data At Rest
                    Encryption page. When you select your encryption keys root of trust
                option, a list of tasks that you must do to enable encryption to-and-from HDFS is
                displayed. 
You complete each task independently from the other tasks. Where, the task’s
                    Status column indicates whether the step has been
                completed and the Notes column provides additional context
                for the task. If your Cloudera Manager user account does not have sufficient
                privileges to complete a task, the Notes column indicates the
                privileges that are required. 
When selected, each task contains links to wizards or documentation that help you
                complete the task. If a task is unavailable, due to insufficient privileges or an
                incomplete prerequisite step, no links are present and the
                    Notes column displays the reason. 


The Wizard steps are as follows and must be completed in the order listed:
Enable KerberosnoteThe instructions assume that you
                            have enabled Kerberos. If this is not the case, click the link
                            associated with the uncompleted task and follow the Wizard's
                            instructions.
Enable TLS/SSLnoteThe instructions assume that you
                            have enabled TLS. If this is not the case, click the link associated
                            with the uncompleted task and follow the Wizard's
                        instructions.
Add the Java KeyStore KMS Service
Restart the stale services and redeploy the client configuration
Validate the Data Encryption


Verify the following:
The cluster in which Cloudera Manager and the Cloudera Ranger service is
                    installed, is up and running.
Communication through secure connections is enabled with the Transport Layer
                    Security (TLS) protocol and your network authentication is enabled with the
                    Kerberos protocol. 


In a supported web browser on the cluster in which the Ranger service is
                    installed, log in to Cloudera Manager as a user with full administrative
                    privileges.

From the Cloudera Manager navigation side-bar, select Administration > Security.

On the Security Status page, click Set up
                        HDFS Data At Rest Encryption.

In the Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption page, select the A
                        file-based password-protected Java KeyStore option.
A list of tasks are displayed at the bottom of the page. To successfully set
                    up HDFS Data at Rest encryption, these tasks must be completed.noteKerberos and TLS must be
                        enabled. If the steps associated with these tasks do not display
                            Completed in the Status column, before
                        continuing, click the link associated with the uncompleted task and follow
                        the Wizard's instructions.

To set up HDFS Encryption, follow the instructions as described below for each
                    of the Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption Wizard's
                    steps. 


Related informationTLS/SSL and Its Use of CertificatesEnabling Kerberos Authentication for CDPParent topic: Setting Up Data at Rest Encryption for HDFS
Adding the Java KeyStore KMS Service
The Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption wizard's installation
        step that installs the Java KeyStore KMS service on your cluster.

Describes the steps that add the Java KeyStore KMS service to the cluster.


From the Step column in the Set up HDFS Data at Rest
                    Encryption for Cluster page, click Add a Java KeyStore KMS
                        Service.
The Add Java KeyStore KMS Service to Cluster Wizard opens.

In the Assign Roles page, verify that the hostname is the required server on
                    which to add the Java KeyStore KMS service by clicking inside the Key
                        Management Server field. By default, this field is populated by
                    the Wizard.
The Hosts Selected page opens.

In the Hosts Selected page, scroll down and from the
                        Hostname column, locate the hostname that was
                    selected by the Wizard. Notice in the Added Roles column
                    the Java KeyStore KMS Key Management Server (KMS) role icon. This role is added
                    during the installation.

Do one of the following:


If the pre-selected host is correct, confirm the Wizard's choice by
                            clicking OK.
If the pre-selected host is incorrect, deselect the check box of the
                            Wizard's choice, select the hostname check box of the required server,
                            and then click OK.



Back in the Assign Roles page, click Continue.
The Setup Access Control List (ACL) page opens, which enables you to create a
                    key admin user and group that can perform special functions. By default,
                    non-admin users cannot access encrypted data.



Depending on your requirements do one of the following:


To use your own kms-acls.xml file, select the Use Your Own
                                kms-acls.xml File option and in the
                                kms-acls.xml text box, enter the contents of
                            your kms-acls.xml file and then click
                            Continue.
To have the wizard create a kms-acls.xml file and appropriate ACLs do
                            the following:
Select the Use Recommendation.
In the Key Admin User field, enter the
                                    name of the user with administrative privileges.
In the Key Admin Group field, enter the
                                    name of the Group in which the user's can perform special
                                        functions.noteFor multiple users and
                                        groups, enter the user and group names separated by a comma.
                                    
Click Generate ACLs, which populates the
                                    text field with a list of appropriate ACLs.
Click Continue.



The Setup TLS for Java KeyStore KMS page opens, which provides high-level
                    instructions for configuring TLS communication between your cluster and the Java
                    KeyStore KMS.

Click Continue.
The Review Changes page opens.

Review the settings and make any required changes before clicking
                        Continue.

tipFor information about a setting, click
                        the Show Description icon. 


In the Command Details page, monitor the installation of the Java KeyStore KMS
                    service. When the Status displays
                        Finished the Java KeyStore KMS is installed and
                    tested.

Click Continue.
The Setup HDFS Dependency page opens.

Click Continue, which enables the HDFS service and opens
                    the Summary page.

Click Finish, which returns you to the Set up HDFS Data
                    at Rest Encryption for Cluster page.

(Optional) Verify that the Java KeyStore KMS service appears in the Cloudera
                    Manager Clusters components list.
If the Java KeyStore KMS service was not started by the installation wizard,
                    do the following: 
Go to Cloudera Manager's Home page by clicking the Cloudera Manager
                            icon.
In the Cloudera Manager Clusters components list, locate and click
                                Java KeyStore KMS.
From the Actions menu, click
                                Start.


Restart the stale services and redeploy the client
            configuration.


Restarting the Stale Services and Redeploying the Client Configuration
The Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption wizard's step for
        restarting stale services and redeploying the client configuration.

Describes the steps that restart stale services after installing the Data-at-Rest
                HDFS Ranger KMS service option on your cluster.


From the Step column in the Set up HDFS Data at Rest
                    Encryption for Cluster page, click Restart stale services and
                        redeploy client configuration..
The Stale Configurations page opens.

Click Restart Stale Services.
The restart Stale Services page opens.

Verify that the Re-deploy client configuration check box
                    is selected and click Restart Now. 

In the Command Details page, monitor the restart process. When the
                        Status displays Finished,
                    click Continue, which returns you to the Set up HDFS Data
                    at Rest Encryption for Cluster page.

Validate that the Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service option can successfully
            encrypt your data to-and-from HDFS.


Validating Data Encryption to-and-from HDFS
The Set up HDFS Data At Rest Encryption wizard's step for
        validating the data encryption to-and-from HDFS.

Describes the steps which verify that the Data-at-Rest HDFS Ranger KMS service option
                can successfully encrypt your data to-and-from HDFS.


From the Step column in the Set up HDFS Data at Rest
                    Encryption for Cluster page, click Validate Data
                        Encryption.
The Validate Data Encryption page opens, which displays a list of commands and
                    instructions for creating an encryption zone and adding data. 

In a terminal, log in to one of the hosts in your cluster and run each of the
                    following commands:


Create a key and directory by entering the following:

kinit KEY_ADMIN_USER 
hadoop key create mykey1 
hdfs dfs -mkdir /tmp/zonel
Where, KEY_ADMIN_USER is the key administrator
                                whose role can perform the following actions:
Configure HDFS encryption, administer Key Trustee Server,
                                        and manage encryption keys 
Start, stop, and restart Ranger KMS
Configure Ranger KMS Policies
View configuration and monitoring information in Cloudera
                                        Manager 
View service and monitoring information 
View events and logs 
View Replication jobs and snapshot policies 
View YARN applications and Impala queries 




Create a zone and link to the key, by entering the following: 

kinit hdfs hdfs 
hdfs crypto -createZone -keyName mykey1 -path /tmp/zone1 



Create a file, put it in your zone, and verify that the file can be
                            decrypted, by entering the following:

kinit KEY ADMIN_USER
echo "Hello World" > /tmp/helloWorld.txt
hdfs dfs -put /tmp/helloWorld.txt /tmp/zone1
hdfs dfs -cat /tmp/zonel/helloWorld.txt
rm /tmp/helloWorld.txt




Verify that the stored file is encrypted, by entering the
                            following:

kinit hdfs
hdfs dfs -cat /.reserved/raw/tmp/zonel/helloWorld.txt
hdfs dfs -rm -R / tmp/zone1
hdfs crypto -listZones




When completed, click Close, which returns you to the
                    Set up HDFS Data at Rest Encryption for Cluster page.


