Configuring Oracle for Streaming ComponentsCloudera Docs
Configuring Oracle for Streaming Components
If you intend to use Oracle to store the metadata for Streams Messaging Manager or
        Schema Registry, you must configure the Oracle database.

After you install Oracle, configure the database to store:
Schema Registry data such as the schemas and their metadata, all the
                        versions and branches.
SMM data such as Kafka metadata, stores metrics, and alert definitions.



You must have a DBA role to perform the following steps.


Log in to the Oracle database.

Create a new user for Schema Registry or SMM.
For Schema
                    Registry,create user registry identified by 123456;
For
                    SMM,create user streamsmsgmgr identified by 123456;

Create a new tablespace.
For Schema
                    Registry,create tablespace schemaregistry ONLINE;
For SMM,create tablespace streamsmsgmgr ONLINE;

Alter the default tablespace of the user to use the newly created one.
For Schema Registry,
                    alter user registry default tablespace schemaregistry;
For
                    SMM,alter user streamsmsgmgr default tablespace streamsmsgmgr;

Grant access to the database for the newly created user.
For Schema Registry,grant connect to registry;
For SMM,grant connect to streamsmsgmgr;

Grant other privileges to the user including create tables, views, stored
                    procedures, sequences, and drop tables, select queries, and so on.
For Schema
                    Registry,grant all privileges to registry;
For SMM,grant all privileges to streamsmsgmgr;

If you cannot grant all privileges, grant the following privileges that SMM
                        and Schema Registry require at a minimum:
CREATE/ALTER/DROP TABLE
CREATE/ALTER/DROP INDEX
CREATE/ALTER/DROP SEQUENCE
CREATE/ALTER/DROP PROCEDURE

You can find the list of privileges by running the following
                        SQL:SELECT * FROM session_privs
ORDER BY privilege;


The new user needs to have permissions to create or drop
            tables and other database structures because when the Schema Registry or SMM service
            starts, it automatically creates the database structure. If the database structure
            already exists, then the service alters it as necessary.noteWhen using Oracle RAC, you
                need to enter the JDBC connection URL into the
                    database_jdbc_url_override field in Cloudera Manager for
                both Schema Registry and SMM, as shown in the following images:For Schema
                        Registry,

For SMM,

For more information on URL for Oracle RAC, see https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E57185_01/EPMIS/apbs01s01.html.

Parent topic: Configuring the Database for Streaming Components