On-demand MetadataCloudera Docs
On-demand Metadata
 With the on-demand metadata feature, the Impala coordinators pull
    metadata as needed from catalogd and cache it locally. The
    cached metadata gets evicted automatically under memory pressure. 

      The granularity of on-demand metadata fetches is at the partition level between the
      coordinator and catalogd. Common use cases like add/drop partitions do
      not trigger unnecessary serialization/deserialization of large metadata.
    
 The feature can be used in either of the following modes. 
 Metadata on-demand mode 
 In this mode, all coordinators use the metadata on-demand. 
 Set the following on catalogd:
            --catalog_topic_mode=minimal

 Set the following on all impalad coordinators:
            --use_local_catalog=true

 Mixed mode 
 In this mode, only some coordinators are enabled to use the metadata on-demand. 
 We recommend that you use the mixed mode only for testing local catalog’s impact on
            heap usage. 
 Set the following on catalogd:
            --catalog_topic_mode=mixed

 Set the following on impalad coordinators with metdadata on-demand:
            --use_local_catalog=true 

Limitation:

 HDFS caching is not supported in On-demand metadata mode coordinators.
note In Impala 3.4.0 and above, global INVALIDATE METADATA statement is supported
         when On-demand feature is enabled.

INVALIDATE METADATA Usage Notes:
To return accurate query results, Impala needs to keep the metadata current for the
      databases and tables queried. Through "automatic invalidation" or "HMS event polling" support,
      Impala automatically picks up most changes in metadata from the underlying systems. However
      there are some scenarios where you might need to run INVALIDATE METADATA or
        REFRESH. 
if some other entity modifies information used by Impala in the metastore, the
          information cached by Impala must be updated via INVALIDATE METADATA or
            REFRESH,
if you have "local catalog" enabled without "HMS event polling" and need to pick up
          metadata changes that were done outside of Impala in Hive and other Hive client, such as
          SparkSQL,
and so on.


noteAs this is a very expensive operation compared to the incremental metadata update
            done by the REFRESH statement, when possible, prefer
              REFRESH rather than INVALIDATE METADATA.




Related informationInvalidate Metadata StatementParent topic: Managing Metadata in Impala