Data Extracts in Data VisualizationCloudera Docs
Data Extracts in Data Visualization
Data Extracts are saved subsets of data that you can use for data discovery and
    analytics.
Key concepts
When you create a Data Extract, you reduce the total amount of data you work with
        by selecting certain dimensions and measures. After you create an extract, you can refresh
        it with data from the original dataset. With the help of data extracts you can manage the
        analytical capabilities, performance, concurrency, and security of data access in your
        system.
Data Extracts are created from a single dataset but a dataset can have multiple
        extracts associated with it. You can create a Data Extract in Cloudera Data Visualization on
        any target connection that supports it. Since the target of an extract is a simple
        representation of data on the target data connection, you can use it independently as part
        of a different dataset, or even use it as the source for a further transformation into a
        second Data Extract.
When a Data Extract is created, it targets a data connection as the new location
        of the data. This data connection can be the same or a different connection that you have
        used to build the extract. A second dataset built on the target data will be used as the
        dataset for building visuals.
You can refresh Data Extracts on a schedule. This functionality creates a new
        kind of job and uses the standard job scheduling mechanism to schedule and monitor ongoing
        refreshes. Alternatively, you can do the refresh manually when you need it. For more
        information on automated refreshes, see Managing schedule intervals.
You can use extracts to model data within or across data connections. You can
        also use extracts to materialize the data models on the same or different data connections.
        Data modeling is done in the context of a dataset built on the source connection. The
        modeled form of the data can be materialized on that same or on a different data connection.
        Modeling includes everything that is possible within a dataset, including joins, scalar
        transformations, hidden columns and complex aggregations.
noteData Extracts are run on a data connection with the permissions of
        the user who sets up the Data Extract. This user needs to have all the permissions
        associated with running a Data Extract, including Manage AVs/Data Extracts
        permissions on both the source and target data connections, and the permissions in the
        backend data connection to drop and create the target table, select data from the source
        table, and insert data into the target table.

Key features


Improving analytical capabilities

Data Extracts support large data sets. You can create extracts from data
                sets that contain billions of rows of data. Extracts permit joins across data
                connections. You can move data first and then join the data on the target
                system.
Data Extracts enable you to use different data connection capabilities
                for analysis. You can move data from an analytical system to an event-optimized or
                search-optimized store.

Improving performance

Data extraction offers increased performance when large tables or
                datasets are slow to respond to queries. When you work with views that use extracted
                data sources, you experience better performance than when interacting with views
                based on the original dataset.
With Data Extracts, you can do the following:
Model storage of data into columnar forms
Move data to a different query system that performs better

When source data requires expensive join and transformation operations
                for reporting use cases, you can pre-compute join and transformation operations.
When base tables are large but reporting requires a subset of data, or is
                only needed on well understood roll-ups, you can pre-compute filters and
                aggregations as Data Extracts.

Improving workload management

You can use isolated systems for performance characterization on
                particular workloads by moving data from a busy system to another isolated
                system.

Improving security

You can provide access only to the relevant reporting data by masking
                column names and schemas from end users through building dashboards off a derived
                copy of the data with masking enforced. You can move data that is relevant for
                reporting from one system to another and ensure that end users only have access to
                the target system. This ensures that only the data that is relevant for reporting is
                accessible to end users.




Workflow
The following diagram shows you the workflow of building visualizations on top of data
        extracts: 




Supported sources
Cloudera Data Visualization supports the following sources for Data Extracts:

Hive
Impala
MariaDB
MySQL
PostgreSQL
Spark SQL
SQLite (not supported in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW))
Snowflake (Technical Preview)


Supported targets
Cloudera Data Visualization supports the following targets for Data Extracts:

Hive
Impala
MariaDB
MySQL
PostgreSQL
Spark SQL
SQLite (not supported in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW))
Snowflake (Technical Preview)



