Using an access token in Cloudera Data Engineering API callsCloudera Docs
Using an access token in Cloudera Data Engineering API calls
Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) uses JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for
    API authentication.

Get an access token and save it as an environment variable as described in Getting a Cloudera Data Engineering API access
          token.importantThe
          user interface for  CDE 1.17 and above has been updated. The left-hand menu was updated to
          provide easy access  to commonly used pages. The steps below will vary slightly, for
          example, the  Overview page has been replaced with the 
            Home page. To view CDE Services, click 
            Administration in the left-hand menu. The new home page still 
          displays Virtual Clusters, but now includes quick-access links located at the top for the 
          following categories: Jobs, Resources, and 
            Download & Docs.


Determine the API URL for the virtual cluster you want to access
          using the API. The API URL for managing jobs is different from the URL
          used to obtain the access token.

Navigate to the Cloudera Data Engineering
                Overview page.

In the CDE Services column, select the environment
              containing the virtual cluster you want to interact with using the API.

In the Virtual Clusters column on
              the right, click the Cluster Details icon
              for the virtual cluster you want to interact with.
Click JOBS API URL to copy the
              link to your clipboard.For example:
                https://pmjkrgn5.cde-czlmkz4y.na-01.xvp2-7p8o.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1

When you make an API call, include the JWT as a bearer token.
          For example, to list all jobs associated with the virtual cluster,
          assuming you have saved the token as an environment variable named
            CDE_TOKEN:
curl -H "Authorization: Bearer ${CDE_TOKEN}" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X GET "https://pmjkrgn5.cde-czlmkz4y.na-01.xvp2-7p8o.cloudera.site/dex/api/v1/jobs" 


