Switching to disaster recovery cluster using Replication ManagerCloudera Docs
Switching to disaster recovery cluster using Replication Manager
Hive ACID replication policies replicate managed data or transactional data from a
        source cluster to a destination cluster. In a scenario where you have a production cluster
        and you want to perform a maintenance activity, you might want to switch over to a disaster
        recovery cluster for uninterrupted usage. You can use the failover functionality to make the
        disaster recovery cluster as your primary cluster so that the data ingestion being performed
        by a replication policy is uninterrupted.

Go to Cloudera Manager > Replication > Replication Policies page.

Identify the Hive ACID table replication policy that has the required source
                    cluster and target cluster.

Click Actions > Start Failover for the required policy. 
This initiates the failover process. After the failover process finishes
                    successfully, the Cloudera Manager of the target cluster initiates the next
                    steps to complete the process.

During the failover process, the Actions  > Revert/Complete failover option appears for the policy. Use this option for the following
                    scenarios:



Scenario
Description



Stop the failover process when it is in progress
In this scenario, the Replication Manager performs the
                                            Revert operation. The revert
                                            operation ensures that the process is stopped, the
                                            changes are reverted, the target Cloudera Manager
                                            initiates the complete command to remove any changes
                                            made on the target cluster, and then Replication Manager
                                            disables the policy.


Target cluster Cloudera Manager did not initiate the
                                        completion command after the failover process
                                        finished
In this scenario, the Replication Manager performs the
                                            Complete failover operation.
                                            The complete failover operation initiates the
                                            complete command by the target cluster Cloudera Manager
                                            which ensures that a clean up of temporary files and
                                            necessary modifications are complete on the target
                                            cluster. After the complete command finishes,
                                            Replication Manager disables the policy.




After the failover process finishes successfully, the target cluster Cloudera
                    Manager initiates the complete command.
This action ensures that a clean up of temporary files and necessary
                    modifications is complete on the target cluster. After the complete command
                    finishes, the Replication Manager disables the replication policy on the
                    disaster recovery cluster.


To initiate data replication from the disaster recovery cluster to the
                original source cluster, perform the following steps on the original source cluster
                (for example, production cluster):

Remove the original source database. 
Create a Hive ACID table replication policy where you choose the
                    disaster recovery cluster as the source and the original source cluster (for
                    example, production cluster) as the target. 
tipIf a Hive ACID table replication
                            policy already exists between the disaster recovery cluster (source) and
                            the original source cluster (target), you can enable the policy. The
                                Start Failover option is available to use if
                            necessary.
importantIf you have two Hive ACID table
                        replication policies where one policy replicates data from
                            clusterA to clusterB and another to replicate
                        data from clusterB to clusterA, you can enable
                        only one policy (that is replicate data only in one direction) at a
                        time.



Parent topic: Managing Hive ACID table replication policies