Monitoring the performance of HDFS replication policiesCloudera Docs
Monitoring the performance of HDFS replication policies
You can monitor the progress of an HDFS replication policy using the performance data
    that you can download as a CSV file from the Cloudera Manager Admin console. 

The performance report contains information about the files being replicated, the average
        throughput, and other details that can help diagnose performance issues during HDFS
        replications. You can view this performance data for running HDFS replication jobs and for
        completed jobs. The performance data is collected every two minutes. Therefore, no data is
        available during the initial execution of a replication job because not enough samples are
        available to estimate throughput and other reported data.
To view the performance data for a running HDFS replication policy, perform the
        following steps:


Go to the Cloudera Manager > Replication > Replication Policies page.

Locate and select the replication policy. Click Actions > Show History.

Click Download CSV for the HDFS Replication
            Report field, and choose one of the following options to download the
          following performance reports:

Performance file contains a summary report about the
            performance of the replication job which includes the last performance sample for each
            mapper working on the replication job. 
Full Performance file contains the complete performance
            report about the job which includes all the samples taken for all mappers during the
            full run of the replication job. 




Open the file in a spreadsheet program such as Microsoft Excel.
The following columns appear in the CSV file:
Timestamp when the performance data was collected.
Host where the YARN or MapReduce job was running.
Number of Bytes Copied for the file currently being
              copied.
Time Elapsed (ms) for the copy operation of the file
              currently being copied.
Number of Files Copied.
Avg Throughput (KB/s) since the start of the file currently
              being copied in kilobytes per second.
File size of the Last File (bytes).
 Time taken to copy Last File Time (ms).
Last file throughput (KB/s) that is being copied in kilobytes
              per second.


Download the following CSV reports to view more information about the replication
          job:


Listing report contains the list of files and directories
              copied during the replication job.
Status report contains the full status report of the files
              where the replication status is shown as:
ERROR occurred during replication, therefore the file was
                  not copied.
DELETED for deleted files.
SKIPPED for up-to-date files that were not replicated.

Error Status Only report contains the status report of all
              copied files with errors. The file lists the status, path, and message for the copied
              files with errors.
Deleted Status Only report contains the status report of all
              deleted files. The file lists the status, path, and message for the databases and
              tables that were deleted.
Skipped Status Only report contains the status report of all
              skipped files. The file lists the status, path, and message for the databases and
              tables that were skipped.



Note the following limitations and
      known issues about the replication reports:
If you click the CSV download too soon after the replication job starts, Cloudera
          Manager returns an empty file or a CSV file that has columns headers only and a message to
          try later when performance data has actually been collected.
If you employ a proxy user with the form user@domain,
          performance data is not available through the links.
If the replication job only replicates small files that can be transferred in less than
          a few minutes, no performance statistics are collected.
If you specify the Dynamic Replication Strategy during replication policy
          creation, statistics regarding the last file transferred by a MapReduce job hide previous
          transfers performed by that MapReduce job.
Only the last trace per MapReduce job is reported in the CSV file.


Parent topic: HDFS replication policies