View HDFS replication policy detailsCloudera Docs
View HDFS replication policy details
The Replications Policies page displays a row of information about each replication
    policy which includes recent messages about the last replication job run. 
You can limit the replication jobs that are displayed by selecting filters on the left. If
      you do not see an expected policy, adjust or clear the filters. Use the search box to search
      the list of replication policies for path, database, or table names. 
noteOnly one job corresponding to a replication policy can occur at a
      time; if another job associated with that same replication policy starts before the previous
      one has finished, the second one is canceled.
The following table describes the columns in the Replication Policies
        page:

Column
Description



ID
Internally generated ID number for the replication policy. Provides a
                convenient way to identify a policy.Click the ID column
                  label to sort the replication policies table by ID.


Name
Unique name you specify when you created the replication policy. Click the
                    Name column label to sort the replication policies table
                  by name.


Type
Shows HDFS or Hive as the replication policy type.


Source
Source cluster for the replication.


Destination
Target cluster for the replication.


Throughput
Average throughput per mapper/file of all the files written. noteThe throughput does not include the combined throughput of
                  all mappers and the time taken to perform a checksum on a file after the file is
                  written.


Progress
Current replication job status.


Completed
Time stamp when the replication job completed.Click the
                    Completed column label to sort the replication policies
                  table by time.


Next Run
Date and time for the next scheduled replication which depends on the schedule
                parameters you specified during policy creation. Hover over the date to view
                additional details about the scheduled replication. Click the Next
                    Run column label to sort the replication policies table by the next
                  run date.


Actions
Click:
Show History to open the Replication
                      History page for a replication policy.
Edit Configuration to change the replication policy
                    options as required.
Dry Run to simulate a run of the replication task where
                    no files or tables are copied. After the dry run completes, select
                      Show History to view the potential error messages and
                    the number and size of files or tables that would be copied in an actual
                    replication appears on the Replication History page.
Run Now to run the replication task immediately. 
Collect Diagnostic Data to open the
                      Send Diagnostic Data screen where you can collect
                    replication-specific diagnostic data for the last 10 runs of the replication
                      policy.In the Send Diagnostic Data screen, select
                        Send Diagnostic Data to Cloudera to automatically
                      send the bundle to Cloudera Support. You can also enter a ticket number and
                      comments when sending the bundle. After you click Collect and Send
                        Diagnostic Data, the Replication Manager generates the bundle
                      and opens the Replications Diagnostics Command screen.
                      When the command finishes, click Download Result Data
                      to download a zip file containing the bundle. 
Disable | Enable to disable the replication policy or
                    enable the disabled replication policy. No further replications are scheduled
                    for disabled replication policies. 
Delete to remove the replication policy permanently
                    from Replication Manager. Deleting a replication policy does not delete copied
                    files or tables.



When a replication job is in progress, the Last Run column shows a
      spinner and progress bar, and each stage of the replication task is indicated in the message
      beneath the job's row. Click Command Details to view the command run
      details. If the job is successful, the number of files copied is indicated. If there have been
      no changes to a file at the source since the previous job, then that file is not copied. As a
      result, after the initial job, only a subset of the files may actually be copied, and this is
      indicated in the success message. Click Actions > Show History to view more information about the completed job. 
The following sample image shows the Replication Policies page in
      Cloudera Manager:




Parent topic: HDFS replication policies