Replicating from unsecure to secure clustersCloudera Docs
Replicating from unsecure to secure clusters
Replication Manager can replicate data from an unsecure cluster (one that does not use
    Kerberos authentication) to a secure cluster (a cluster that uses Kerberos) but the reverse is
    not true.

importantReplication Manager does not support replicating
        from a secure cluster to an unsecure cluster.
Before you replicate from an unsecure cluster to secure cluster, ensure that the following
        conditions are met:
The destination cluster is managed by Cloudera Manager 6.1.0 or higher. The source
            cluster is managed by Cloudera Manager 5.14.0 or higher in order to be able to replicate
            to Cloudera Manager 6. 
Same user exists on all the hosts on both the source and destination clusters. If
            required, specify this user in the Run As Username field when you
            create a replication policy.

noteIn replication scenarios where a destination cluster has multiple source clusters, all
        the source clusters must either be secure or unsecure. Replication Manager does not support
        replication from a mixture of secure and unsecure source clusters. 


On a host in the source or destination cluster, add a user with the following
          command:
sudo -u hdfs hdfs dfs -mkdir -p
            /user/[***username***]
For example, the following command creates a user named milton: 
sudo -u hdfs hdfs dfs -mkdir -p /user/milton

Set the permissions for the user directory with the following command:
sudo -u hdfs hdfs dfs -chown <username> /user/username
For example, the following command makes milton the owner of the milton
          directory:
sudo -u hdfs hdfs dfs -chown milton /user/milton

Create the supergroup group for the user you created in step 1 with the following
          command:
groupadd supergroup

Add the user you created in step 1 to the group you created:
usermod -G supergroup <username>

For example, add milton to the group named supergroup:
usermod -G supergroup milton

Repeat this process for all hosts in the source and destination clusters so that the
          user and group exists on all of them.

After you complete this process, specify the user you created
      in the Run As Username field when you create a replication
      policy.

Parent topic: Prepare to replicate using replication policies