Parameters to optimize Hive ACID table replication performanceCloudera Docs
Parameters to optimize Hive ACID table replication performance
To optimize Hive ACID table replication performance, you can configure Hive
        configuration parameters.


hive.repl.retry.initial.delay
Configure the first retry delay in seconds. The default value is 60
                            seconds.
hive.repl.retry.backoff.coefficient
Configure the exponential delay between retries. (Previous
                            Delay) * (Backoff Coefficient) determines the
                        next retry interval. The default value is 1.2.
hive.repl.retry.jitter
Configure the random jitter to avoid all retries happening at the same
                            time.The default value is 30 seconds.
hive.repl.retry.max.delay.between.retries
Configure the maximum allowed retry delay in minutes after including
                        exponential backoff. The default value is 60 minutes.
hive.repl.retry.total.duration
Configure the total allowed retry duration in hours which is inclusive of
                        all retries. Once this is exhausted, the policy instance is marked as failed
                        and needs manual intervention to restart.The default value is 24
                        hrs.
hive.repl.approx.max.load.tasks
Configure an approximate maximum number of tasks to run before the next set
                        of tasks is dynamically generated. This is an approximate value because Hive
                        stops at a slightly higher number as some events lead to a task increment
                        that might cross the specified limit.The default value is 10000.
hive.repl.partitions.dump.parallelism
Configure the number of threads to dump partition data information during
                        repl dump.The default value is 100.
hive.repl.run.data.copy.tasks.on.target
Configure the parameter to true so that replication runs the data copy tasks
                        during the repl load operation.The default value is
                            true.
hive.repl.file.list.cache.size
Configure  the threshold for the maximum number of data copy locations to be
                        kept in memory. When the
                            hive.repl.run.data.copy.tasks.on.target parameter is
                        set to true, this parameter is not considered.The
                            default value is 10000.
hive.repl.load.partitions.batch.size
Configure the maximum number of partitions of a table to batch together
                        during a replication load. All the partitions in a batch makes a single
                        metastore call to update the metadata. The data for these partitions is
                        copied before the metadata batch is copied.The default value is
                            10000.
hive.exec.copyfile.maxnumfiles
Configure the  maximum number of files that Hive uses to perform sequential
                        HDFS copies between directories. To increase the copy speed for a large
                        number of files, distributed copies (distcp) are
                            used.The default value is 1L.
hive.exec.copyfile.maxsize
Configure the maximum file size in bytes  that Hive uses to perform single
                        HDFS copies between directories. To increase the copy speed for bigger
                        files, distributed copies (distcp) are used.The default
                            value is 32L * 1024 * 1024.
hive.exec.parallel.thread.number
Maximum number of Hive ACID table replication policies that can run in
                        parallel. The maximum number of parallel policies is equal to the number of
                        available cores in the source cluster. Set this property at session
                        level.
Before you set this value, configure the
                            hive.exec.parallel parameter to true by running
                        the REPL LOAD command using the WITH clause. 



Parent topic: Configure parameters for Hive ACID table replication policies