Hive external table replication policiesCloudera Docs
Hive external table replication policies
Hive external table replication policies enable you to copy (replicate) your Hive
    metastore and data from one cluster to another and synchronize the Hive metastore and data set
    on the 'destination' cluster with the source, based on a specified replication policy. 
note

Replication Manager requires a valid license. To understand more about Cloudera license
          requirements, see Managing Licenses.
Minimum required role - Replication Administrator or Full
          Administrator.
Before you create replication policies, ensure that the source cluster and target
          cluster are supported by Replication Manager. For information about supported clusters and
          supported replication scenarios by Replication Manager, see Support matrix for Replication Manager on CDP Private Cloud Base.


The destination cluster must be managed by the Cloudera Manager Server where the
      replication is being set up, and the source cluster can be managed by that same server
      or by a peer Cloudera Manager Server.
cautionBecause of the warehouse directory changes between CDH clusters and CDP Private Cloud Base, Hive external table replication does not copy the
      table data from the database and tables specified in the source cluster. But the replication
      job gets successfully run without any disruptions. While replicating from CDH clusters to CDP Private Cloud Base, it is recommended that the HDFS
        Destination Path is defined. If HDFS Destination Path is not defined
        and Replicate HDFS File is set as true, the data is
      replicated with the original source name. For example, the replicated table data was to reside
        under /warehouse/tablespace/external/hive directory but the data was
      replicated to /user/hive/warehouse location. Also, not
        defining HDFS Destination Path before the replication process can
      result in a large chunk of HDFS space being used for unwanted data movement.

importantSince Hive3 has a different default table type and warehouse directory
        structure, the following changes apply while replicating Hive data from CDH5 or CDH6
        versions to CDP Private Cloud Base:

When you replicate from a CDH cluster to a CDP Private Cloud Base
          cluster, all tables become External tables during Hive external table replication. This is
          because the default table type is ACID in Hive3, which is the only managed table type. As
          of this release, Replication Manager does not support Hive2 ->
            Hive3 replication into ACID tables and all the tables will necessarily be
          replicated as External tables.noteManaged tables are not supported
            by Replication Manager when you replicate data between CDP Private Cloud Base clusters.
Replicated tables will be created under external Hive warehouse directory set
            by hive.metastore.warehouse.external.dir Hive configuration parameter.
          Users have to make sure that this has a different value
            than hive.metastore.warehouse.dir Hive configuration parameter, that is
          the location of Managed tables. 
If users want to replicate the same database from Hive2 to Hive3 (that will have
          different paths by design), they need to use Force Overwrite option
          per policy to avoid any mismatch issues.noteWhile replicating from Sentry to Ranger, the
            minimum supported Cloudera Manager version is 6.3.1 and above.


Configuration notes:
If the hadoop.proxyuser.hive.groups configuration has been changed to
          restrict access to the Hive Metastore Server to certain users or groups, the
            hdfs group or a group containing the hdfs user must
          also be included in the list of groups specified for Hive/Impala replication to work. This
          configuration can be specified either on the Hive service as an override, or in the
          core-site HDFS configuration. This applies to configuration settings on both the source
          and destination clusters.
If you configured on the target cluster for the directory where HDFS data is copied
          during Hive/Impala replication, the permissions that were copied during replication, are
          overwritten by the HDFS ACL synchronization and are not preserved
noteIf your deployment includes tables backed by Kudu, Replication Manager filters out
        Kudu tables for a Hive external table replication in order to prevent data loss or
        corruption. 

Hive replication policy considerationsBefore you create a Hive replication policy, you must consider when to specify the         hosts to improve performance, understand how DDL commands affect Hive tables during         replication, how to disable parameter replication in Cloudera Manager, and the additional         properties to configure for Hive replication in dynamic environments.Creating a Hive external table replication policyYou must set up your clusters before you create a Hive external table replication     policy.Sentry to Ranger replication for Hive external tablesWhen you create or edit a Hive external table replication policy, you can choose to         migrate the Sentry policies for Hive objects, Impala data, and URLs that are being         replicated. Replication Manager converts the Sentry policies to Ranger policies for the         migrated data in the target cluster. Cloudera Manager version 6.3.1 and higher is required         to replicate Sentry policies to Ranger.Importing Sentry privileges into Ranger policiesHow to complete the process of translating Sentry privileges into Ranger         policies.Replicating data to Impala clustersImpala metadata is replicated as part of regular Hive/Impala replication operations.     Impala metadata replication is performed as a part of Hive external table replication. Impala     replication is only supported between two CDH clusters. The Impala and Hive services must be     running on both clusters. Replication of Impala and Hive User Defined Functions (UDFs)By default, for clusters where the version of CDH is 5.7 or higher, Impala and Hive     UDFs are persisted in the Hive Metastore and are replicated automatically as part of Hive/Impala     replication.Monitoring the performance of Hive/Impala replication policiesYou can monitor the progress of a Hive/Impala replication policy using performance data     that you download as a CSV file from Replication Manager. 