Managing HDFS snapshots in Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Managing HDFS snapshots in Cloudera Manager
You can manage HDFS snapshots using Cloudera Manager or the command line.
For HDFS services, use the File Browser tab to view the HDFS
      directories associated with a service on your cluster. You can view the currently saved
      snapshots for your files. You can also delete or restore snapshots. 
On the HDFS File Browser tab, you can:

designate HDFS directories to be "snapshottable" so snapshots can be created for those
        directories.
initiate immediate (unscheduled) snapshots of an HDFS directory.
view the list of saved snapshots currently being maintained. These can include one-off
        immediate snapshots, as well as scheduled policy-based snapshots.
delete a saved snapshot.
restore an HDFS directory or file from a saved snapshot.
restore an HDFS directory or file from a saved snapshot to a new directory or file
        (Restore As).

Before using snapshots, note the following limitations:
Snapshots that include encrypted directories cannot be restored
          outside of the zone within which they were created.
The Cloudera Manager Admin Console cannot perform snapshot operations (such as create,
          restore, and delete) for HDFS paths with encryption-at-rest enabled. This limitation only
          affects the Cloudera Manager Admin Console and does not affect CDH command-line tools or
          actions not performed by the Admin Console, such as Replication Manager which uses
          command-line tools. For more information about snapshot operations, see Apache HDFS snapshots documentation.


Browse HDFS directoriesYou can browse through the HDFS directories to select the right cluster.Enabling and disabling HDFS snapshotsFor snapshots to be created, HDFS directories must be enabled for snapshots. You cannot     specify a directory as part of a snapshot policy unless it has been enabled for     snapshots.Taking and deleting HDFS snapshotsTo take HDFS snapshots for a directory, you must first enable snapshots for the HDFS     directory.Restoring HDFS snapshotsBefore you restore from a snapshot, ensure that there is adequate disk     space.Parent topic: Snapshots