Using snapshots with replicationCloudera Docs
Using snapshots with replication
Some replications, especially those that require a long time to finish can fail because
    source files are modified during the replication process. You can prevent such failures by using
    snapshot policies in Replication Manager. This use of snapshots is automatic with CDH versions
    5.0 and higher. To take advantage of this, you must enable the relevant directories for
    snapshots (also called making the directory snapshottable). 
When the replication job runs, it checks to see whether the specified source directory is
      snapshottable. Before replicating any files, the replication job creates point-in-time
      snapshots of these directories and uses them as the source for file copies. This ensures that
      the replicated data is consistent with the source data as of the start of the replication job.
      The latest snapshot for the subsequent runs is retained after the replication process is
      completed.
A directory is snapshottable because it has been enabled for snapshots, or because a
      parent directory is enabled for snapshots. Subdirectories of a snapshottable directory are
      included in the snapshot. 

Snapshot policies in Replication ManagerYou can create snapshot policies in Replication Manager that define the directories or     tables to be snapshotted, the intervals at which snapshots should be taken, and the number of     snapshots that should be kept for each snapshot interval. Creating and managing snapshot policiesYou must enable an HDFS directory for snapshots in Cloudera Manager and then create     snapshot policies for that directory in Replication Manager. Snapshots historyThe Snapshots History page shows information about the snapshot jobs that have been run     or attempted. Hive/Impala replication using snapshotsIf you are using Hive external table replication, Cloudera recommends that you make the     Hive Warehouse Directory snapshottable. Orphaned snapshotsWhen a snapshot policy includes a limit on the number of snapshots to keep, Cloudera     Manager checks the total number of stored snapshots each time a new snapshot is added, and     automatically deletes the oldest existing snapshot if necessary. Parent topic: Snapshots