Ozone replication policiesCloudera Docs
Ozone replication policies
Apache Ozone is a scalable, distributed, and high performance object store optimized for
    big data workloads and can handle billions of objects of varying sizes. Ozone storage is
    co-located on HDFS. You can create Ozone replication policies in CDP Private Cloud Base
    Replication Manager to replicate data in Ozone buckets between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8
    clusters or higher using Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 or higher.
Cloudera supports the following types of Ozone storage:

Object store buckets (OBS), which are storage buckets where all the keys are
        written into a flat namespace and can be accessed using S3 interface provided by Ozone.
File System Optimization (FSO), which are Hadoop-compatible file system buckets
        where the rename and delete operations on the directories are atomic. These buckets can be
        accessed using Filesystem APIs and S3 interfaces.
Legacy buckets, which are Ozone buckets created prior to CDP Private Cloud Base
        7.1.8 and use the Ozone File System (ofs) protocol or scheme.

Ozone replication policies support data replication between:
FSO buckets in source and target clusters using ofs protocol. 
legacy buckets in source and target clusters using ofs protocol. noteIf one or both of the source and destination buckets is a legacy
            bucket, then the ozone.om.enable.filesystem.paths flag
            (cluster-level configuration property) in the ozone-site.xml file
            must be enabled on the cluster(s) with the legacy bucket.
OBS buckets in source and target clusters that support S3A filesystem using
          the S3A scheme or replication protocol. 

Skipping data transfer based on file checksum is supported for FSO buckets and legacy buckets
      and snapshot diff-based incremental replication is not
      available.

Preparing clusters to replicate Ozone dataYou must prepare the clusters, create buckets in the target cluster, and configure         additional configurations for OBS bucket replication before you create Ozone replication         policies in CDP Private Cloud Base Replication Manager.Creating Ozone replication policiesYou can create Ozone replication policies in CDP Private Cloud Base Replication         Manager on the target cluster.Managing Ozone replication policiesAfter you create an Ozone replication policy, you can perform and monitor various         tasks related to the replication policy. You can view the job progress and replication logs.         You can edit the advanced options to optimize a job run. You can suspend a job and also         activate a suspended job. 