Managing Hive ACID table replication policiesCloudera Docs
Managing Hive ACID table replication policies
After you create a replication policy, you can run the replication job, disable or
        delete the job, edit the policy configuration, or view the replication job history in
        Cloudera Manager. 
Go to the Replication > Replication Policies page.
Select the required replication policy.Click Actions. The following options appear:


Show History to view the replication
                            job history on the Replication History page. 
Edit Configuration to edit the schedule
                            of the replication policy.
Run Now to run the replication
                            job.
Disable the selected replication
                            job
Start Failover to initiate the
                            replication policy failover process. For more information, see Switching to disaster recovery cluster using Replication Manager.
Delete the selected replication
                            job.


The Replication History page shows the replication policy
                    name, the replication policy type, the chosen source and destination clusters
                    for the policy, and the next scheduled run. 

The page also shows the following statistics for each replication
                        policy job:

Start Time of a replication policy
                            job.
Duration or time taken to complete the
                            job.
Outcome of the current job status.
Origin of collected Hive metrics. Click
                                SOURCE or TARGET in
                            the field to view the metrics for the replication job.
Total number of Tables to be replicated
                            to the number of tables replicated successfully.
Functions column is incremented
                            whenever a function is processed during dump and load operations.
Events column is incremented for every
                            event dumped during dump operation and every event loaded during load
                            operation. The counts for dump and load operation might not match
                            because they are distinct operations.



When you schedule and submit a replication policy, the
                Next Run field shows the None scheduled
            message on the Replication Policies page. When the next run is
            scheduled, the date and time do not appear. You can ignore the None
                scheduled message as the replication job runs on Hive as scheduled or as
            per the schedule clause. Note that the schedules are managed by Hive. Cloudera Manager
            does not run any scheduled run. 

Switching to disaster recovery cluster using Replication ManagerHive ACID replication policies replicate managed data or transactional data from a         source cluster to a destination cluster. In a scenario where you have a production cluster         and you want to perform a maintenance activity, you might want to switch over to a disaster         recovery cluster for uninterrupted usage. You can use the failover functionality to make the         disaster recovery cluster as your primary cluster so that the data ingestion being performed         by a replication policy is uninterrupted.Parent topic: Hive ACID table replication policies