Restoring HDFS snapshotsCloudera Docs
Restoring HDFS snapshots
Before you restore from a snapshot, ensure that there is adequate disk
    space.

Go to the Cloudera Manager > HDFS service > File Browser tab.
Go to the directory you want to restore.
Click the drop-down menu next to the full file path (to the right of the file browser
        listings) and select one of the following: 
Restore Directory From Snapshot
Restore Directory From Snapshot As...
The Restore Snapshot dialog box appears.
Select Restore Directory From Snapshot As... if you want to restore
        the snapshot to a different directory. Enter the directory path to which the snapshot has to
        be restored. Ensure that there is enough space on HDFS to restore the files from the
          snapshot.noteIf you enter an existing directory path in the
            Restore Directory From Snapshot As... field, the directory is
          overwritten.
Select one of the following: 
Use HDFS 'copy' command - This option runs the restore job
            slowly and does not require credentials in a secure cluster. It copies the contents of
            the snapshot as a subdirectory or as files within the target directory.
Use DistCp / MapReduce - This option runs the restore job
            faster and requires credentials (Run As) in secure clusters. It merges the target
            directory with the contents of the source snapshot. When you select this option, the
            following additional fields, which are similar to those available when configuring a
            replication policy appear under More Options: 


When restoring HDFS data, if a MapReduce or YARN service is present in the
                    cluster, the DistributedCopy (distcp) job is used to restore directories,
                    increasing the speed of restoration. You can choose MapReduce or YARN as the
                    MapReduce service. For files, if a MapReduce or YARN service is not present, a
                    normal copy is performed. 

Skip Checksum Checks - Determines
                  whether to skip checksum checks (the default is to perform them). If checked,
                  checksum validation is not be performed. You must select the this property to
                    prevent failure when restoring snapshots in the following cases:
Restoring a snapshot within a single encryption zone.
Restoring a snapshot from one encryption zone to a different encryption
                        zone.
Restoring a snapshot from an unencrypted zone to an encrypted zone.






Parent topic: Managing HDFS snapshots in Cloudera Manager