Configure two-way trust between clustersCloudera Docs
Configure two-way trust between clusters
A two-way trust between the source cluster and target cluster is required when both
        the clusters use different Kerberos KDC servers with the same realm or different realms. The
        staging directory is on the target cluster. It allows the source cluster to access staging
        on the target cluster for both the DistCp and YARN jobs after you configure the two-way
        trust between the clusters. The administrator must set up a one-way trust in order to use
        replication between two kerberized clusters. You can also set up a one-way trust when the
        staging directory is on the source cluster. Optionally, a two-way trust can be
        configured.
Clusters using different Kerberos KDC Servers with same realm
When the clusters use different Kerberos KDC servers with the same realm, you must
                point both the clusters to a single Kerberos KDC server and regenerate the keytabs
                of the migrated cluster in Cloudera Manager.
To point the clusters to a single Kerberos KDC server, perform the following
                    steps:
Create a source cluster and a target cluster that belong to the same realm.
                            For example, assume that the realm name is EXAMPLE.COM. noteIn
                            this example, EXAMPLE.COM points to the KDC server on the source
                            cluster. It can point to the target cluster as well.
Set up the /etc/krb5.conf file on all the hosts of both
                        the source and target clusters.
Perform the following steps only on the target cluster:
[realms] section - In the target cluster,
                                copy EXAMPLE.COM from the source cluster's KDC, admin_server, and
                                default_domain settings.
[domain_realm] section - Enlist all the hosts
                                of both source and target clusters.


To regenerate the keytabs of the migrated cluster, perform the following steps:
Log into Cloudera Manager with administrator privileges.
Stop all the services including the Cloudera Management Service.
Go to the Administration > Security > Kerberos credentials page.
Click Setup KDC for this Cloudera Manager
                        option.
In the Setup KDC for this Cloudera Manager wizard,
                        choose the following options:
On the Getting Started page, select
                                    MIT KDC. Select I have
                                    completed all the above steps after you make sure
                                that all the steps in this page are complete.
Click Continue.
On the Enter KDC Information page, update the
                                    KDC Server Host information as per the
                                source cluster configuration.
Click Continue.
Enter the required details in all pages of the wizard to complete
                                the setup. 

Go to the Administration > Security  > Kerberos Credentials page.
Select all the listed Principal values, and click
                            Regenerate Selected.
Restart the Cloudera Management Service and the clusters.


Clusters using different Kerberos KDC Servers with different realms
When the CDP Private Cloud Base source cluster and target
                cluster use different Kerberos KDC servers with different realms, you must set up a
                two-way KDC trust between the clusters.
Hive ACID table replication policies use a common staging location on the source or
                target cluster. To set the staging location path, use the
                    hive.repl.rootdir configuration parameter to configure the HDFS
                root directory for all replication dumps in the source cluster. The REPL DUMP
                command dumps data into the staging location and the REPL LOAD command reads the
                data from the staging location. The REPL DUMP command runs in the source cluster and
                the REPL LOAD command runs in the target cluster.
When the staging location is on the target cluster, the source cluster hosts access
                the target HDFS staging location. The target KDC trusts the connections from the
                source using trusted keytabs. Similarly, if the staging location is on the source
                cluster, the target cluster hosts access the source HDFS staging location.
To set up two-way trust between the CDP Private Cloud Base
                source and target cluster, perform the following steps:
Create clusters that belong to different Kerberos realms. For example,
                            assume that you have Realm: “DRT” for the target
                            cluster and Realm: “DRS” for the source
                            cluster.
Set up the /etc/krb5.conf file on all hosts of both the
                        source and target hosts:

[realms]section - Enlist both the DRS and DRT
                                realms, DRS from the source cluster's Kerberos KDC, admin_server,
                                and default_domain settings.
[domain_realm] - Enlist all the hosts of both
                                source and target clusters.
Add krbtgt/DRS@DRT principal on both the source and
                                target hosts that have HDFS NameNode role.
$ sudo kadmin.local
kadmin.local: addprinc -pw cloudera krbtgt/DRS@DRT
WARNING: no policy specified for krbtgt/DRS@DRT; defaulting to no policy
Principal "krbtgt/DRS@DRT" created
kadmin.local: listprincs


In Cloudera Manager, perform the following steps:
Enable DRT as Trusted Kerberos Realm in source cluster HDFS
                                service's configuration.
Enable DRS as Trusted Kerberos Realm (trusted_realm) in target
                                cluster's configuration along with the source host name where HDFS
                                NameNode role is present.
Enable DRS as Trusted Kerberos Realm in target cluster HDFS
                                service's configuration.
Access the remote HDFS endpoint to verify whether the trust set up
                                is successful. To access the remote HDFS endpoint, run the following
                                commands:kinit krbtgt/DRS@DRT
hadoop fs -ls hdfs://[***REMOTE HDFS ENDPOINT***]>:8020/



Parent topic: Prepare to create Hive ACID table replication policies