Introduction to Azure environmentsCloudera Docs
Introduction to Azure environments
In CDP, an environment is a logical subset of your cloud provider account including a specific virtual private network. You can register as many environments as you require.
The “environment” concept of CDP is closely related to the virtual private network in your cloud provider account. Registering an environment provides CDP with access to your cloud provider account and identifies the resources in your cloud provider account that CDP services can access or provision. A single environment is contained within a single cloud provider region, so all resources deployed by CDP are deployed within that region within one specific virtual network. Once you’ve registered an environment in CDP, you can start provisioning CDP resources such as clusters, which run on the physical infrastructure in an Azure data center. 
The following diagram enumerates the components of an environment:

The diagram illustrates all major user-created and CDP-created components of an environment:

The items in dark blue boxes with orange outlines can either be automatically provisioned by CDP on your Azure account, or you can optionally pre-create them and specify them when registering an environment. 
The items in dark blue boxes must be pre-created by your CDP administrator prior to environment registration and then specified when registering an environment.
The items in orange boxes are automatically provisioned on Azure by CDP as part of environment provisioning.


noteThe items that are user-created don’t get terminated during environment deletion.
      

As shown in the diagram, an environment consists of the following resources:



Environment component


Description




Virtual network with subnets
An environment corresponds to one specific virtual network (called VNet on Azure)
              and subnets in which CDP resources are provisioned. 


Security groups
Security groups (called NSGs on Azure) act as a virtual firewall for your
              instances to control inbound and outbound traffic. All VM instances provisioned
                within an environment use your specified security access settings allowing inbound
                access to your instances from your organization’s computers. 


Credential
CDP uses the credential for authorization to provision resources (such as compute
              instances) within your cloud provider account. On Azure, credential creation
                involves creating an application and a service principal within the Azure Active
                Directory  manually (app-based credential). 


SSH public key
When registering an environment on a public cloud, a CDP administrator provides
              an SSH public key. This way, the administrator has root-level access to the Data Lake
              instance and Data Hub cluster instances.


Cloud storage location and managed identities 
When registering an environment, you must provide an ADLS Gen2 location for storing:
All workload cluster data 
Cluster service logs and Ranger audits
Furthermore, you must create and assign managed identities so that CDP can
                access the storage location. 


Data Lake
A data lake is automatically provisioned when an environment is created. It
              provides a mechanism for storing, accessing, organizing, securing, and managing data. 


FreeIPA
A FreeIPA server is automatically provisioned when an environment is created. It
              is responsible for synchronizing your users and making them available to CDP services,
              Kerberos service principal management, and more. 


Resource groups 
CDP creates multiple new resource groups for resources that it deploys on your
              Azure account.


You may want to register multiple environments corresponding to different regions that your
      organization would like to use. Once your environment is running, you can provision Data Hub
      clusters, Data Warehouses, and other resources in it.

