Configure lifecycle management for logs on AzureCloudera Docs
Configure lifecycle management for logs on Azure
To avoid unnecessary costs related to ALS Gen2 cloud storage, you should create
  lifecycle management rules for your cloud storage container used by CDP for storing logs so that
  these logs get deleted once they are no longer useful.
Some examples of CDP logs stored in cloud storage are: cloudera server logs, cloudera
   agent logs, autossh logs, freeipa logs, ranger audit logs, datahub services logs, datalake logs,
   cm management services logs, and so on. These logs are mostly useful for troubleshooting, so they
   can be periodically deleted.
Azure allows you to set up lifecycle management rules for your ADLS cloud storage.
   For example, you can set a specified expiration period for a cloud storage location so that files
   in that location get deleted automatically on a scheduled basis. Cloudera recommends that you do
   this for the cloud storage location that you provided to CDP for log storage. 
Consider the following when setting up lifecycle management rules:

As logs and data locations may overlap with each other (in case the same bucket or
    container is used for both), ensure to use the correct path prefixes in order to delete only the
    logs. The prefixes are listed below. 
When setting an expiration period, consider how long you would like to keep the
    logs to allow enough time for troubleshooting. For example, in case your Data Lake, FreeIPA or
    Data Hub cluster is ever down, you should be able to access the logs for troubleshooting. 

To set up lifecycle management:


Review the prefixes listed below.


Follow the instructions in Optimize costs by automating Azure Blob Storage access
      tiers. 


Prefixes based on Azure environment’s logs location base
Prior to creating lifecycle management rules, review this information to ensure that you use
    the correct path. 
notePath logic changed in February 2021. Starting in February 2021, the path automatically
    contains the cluster-logs folder as a peer of the cluster-backups folder, creating
    a better structural separation between logs and backups.




The “cluster-logs” prefix is automatically generated if a bucket name
          without any subdirectories is used as logs location

The “cluster-logs” prefix is automatically generated if subdirectories are
           provided

If your environment was registered prior to February 2021: If you
          defined a sub-directory, then that subdirectory is used instead of
         “cluster-logs”


Logs location provided during environment registration
abfs://mycontainer@myaccount.dfs.core.windows.net
abfs://mycontainer/my-dl@myaccount.dfs.core.windows.net 
abfs://mycontainer/my-dl@myaccount.dfs.core.windows.net



FreeIPA prefix for lifecycle rule
mycontainer/cluster-logs/freeipa
mycontainer/my-dl/cluster-logs/freeipa
mycontainer/my-dl/freeipa


DataLake prefix for lifecycle rule
mycontainer/cluster-logs/datalake
mycontainer/my-dl/cluster-logs/datalake
mycontainer/my-dl/datalake


DataHub prefix for lifecycle rule
mycontainer/cluster-logs/datahub
mycontainer/my-dl/cluster-logs/datahub
mycontainer/my-dl/datahub





Related informationEnabling environment telemetryParent topic: Managing an environment