Register an Azure environment from CDP UICloudera Docs
Register an Azure environment from CDP UI
Once you’ve met the Azure cloud provider requirements, register your Azure
    environment.
Before you begin
This assumes that you have already fulfilled the environment prerequisites described in
        Azure requirements.
Required role:
EnvironmentCreator
Steps

Navigate to the Management Console > Environments > Register environment:
        



On the Register Environment page, provide the following information:
        

 Parameter 
 Description 



General Information


Environment Name (Required)
Enter a name for your environment. The name:
Must be between 5 and 28 characters long.
Can only include lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens.
Must start with a lowercase letter.



Description 
Enter a description for your environment.


Select Cloud Provider (Required)
Select Azure. 


Microsoft Azure Credential (Required)



Select Credential 
Select an existing credential or select Create new
                    credential. For instructions on how to create a credential, refer
                    to Create an app-based credential.
                  



Click Next.
On the Data Access and Data Lake Scaling page, provide the following information: 

 Parameter 
 Description 



Data Lake Settings


Data Lake Name (Required)
Enter a name for the Data Lake cluster that will be created for this
                  environment. The name:
Must be between 5 and 100 characters long
Must contain lowercase letters
Cannot contain uppercase letters 
Must start with a letter
Can only include the following accepted characters are: a-z, 0-9,
                      -.



Data Lake Version (Required)
Select Cloudera Runtime version that should be deployed for your Data Lake.
                  The latest stable version is used by default. All Data Hub clusters provisioned
                  within this Data Lake will be using the same Runtime version. 


Fine-grained access control on ADLS
                  Gen2


Enable Ranger authorization for ADLS Gen2 Identity 
If you would like to use Fine-grained access control, enable this
                  option and then select the Ranger RAZ managed identity created in the Minimal setup for cloud storage. 


Data Access and Audit


Assumer Identity (Required)
Select the Assumer managed identity created in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


Storage Location Base (Required)
Provide the ADLS Gen2 location created for data storage in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


Data Access Identity (Required)
Select the Data Lake Admin managed identity created in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


Ranger Audit Identity (Required)
Select the Ranger Audit managed identity created in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


IDBroker Mappings 
We recommend that you leave this out and set it up after registering your
                  environment as part of Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud
                    storage.  noteIf you are using Fine-grained access control, this option
                    is disabled, because you should onboard your users and groups via Ranger instead
                    of using IDBroker mappings.


Scale (Required)
Select Data Lake scale. By default, “Light Duty” is used. For more
                    information on data lake scale, refer to Data Lake scale. 


Click on Advanced Options to make additional configurations for your Data Lake. The
        following options are available:
          

Parameter
Description



Hardware and Storage
For each host group you can specify an instance type. For more information
                    on instance types, see Sizes for virtual machines in Azure.


Cluster Extensions


Recipes
You can optionally select and attach previously registered recipes to run
                    on a specific Data Lake host group. For more information, see Recipes.



Click Next.
On the Region, Networking and Security page, provide the following
          information:

 Parameter 
 Description 



Region


Select Region (Required)
Select the region that you would like to use for accessing and provisioning
                  resources from CDP. If you would like to use a specific existing virtual
                    network, the virtual network must be located in the selected region.
                  


Resource Group



Select Resource Group (Required)
You have two options:
Select one existing resource group. If you select this, all CDP
                      resources will be provisioned into that resource group.
Select Create new resource groups to have CDP create
                      multiple resource groups. 



Customer Managed Encryption Keys


Enable Customer-Managed Keys
Enable this if you would like to provide a Customer-Managed Key (CMK) to
                  encrypt environment's disks and databases. For more information, refer to Customer managed encryption keys.


Select Encryption Key Resource Group
Select the resource group where the CMK is located.


Encryption key URL
Provide the URL of the key value where the CMK resides. This is the same as
                  the key identifier that you can copy directly from Azure Portal.


Network


Select Network (Required)
You have two options:
Select the existing virtual network where you would like to provision all
                      CDP resources. Refer to VNet and subnets.
Select Create new network to have a new network with
                      three subnets created.



Select Subnets (Required)
This option is only available if you choose to use an existing network.
                  Multiple subnets must be selected and CDP distributes resources evenly within the
                  subnets.


Network CIDR (Required)
This option is only available if you select to create a new network.If you
                    selected to create a new network, provide Network CIDR that determines the range
                    of private IPs that VMs will use. This must be a valid private IP CIDR
                      IP in IPv4 range. For example 10.10.0.0/16 are valid IPs. /16 is
                    required to allow for enough IP addresses. 


Create Private Subnets
This option is only available if you select to have a new network and subnets
                  created. Is is turned on by default so that private subnets are created in
                  addition to public subnets. If you disable it, only public subnets will be
                  created. importantFor production deployments, Cloudera recommends
                    that you use private subnets. Work with your internal IT teams to ensure that
                    users can access the browser interfaces for cluster services.


Enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway
When CCM is enabled, you can optionally enable Public Endpoint Access Gateway
                  to provide secure connectivity to UIs and APIs in Data Lake and Data Hub clusters
                  deployed using private networking.If you are using your existing VPC, under
                      Select Endpoint Access Gateway Subnets, select the public subnets for
                    which you would like to use the gateway. The number of subnets must be the same
                    as under Select Subnets and the availability zones must match. For more
                    information, refer to Public Endpoint Access Gateway
                    documentation. 


Create Private Endpoints
By default, the PostgreSQL Azure database provisioned
                  for your Data Lake is reachable via a service endpoint (public IP address). To
                  increase security, you can optionally select to have it reachable via a private
                  endpoint instead of a service endpoint.
noteThis option is only available if an existing resource group is
                      selected.
noteOnly the subnets that have Azure private endpoint network policies turned
                      off are eligible for private endpoint creation. At least one such subnet is
                      required.
If you select to create a private endpoint and you are using your
                    own VNet, you have two options:

Select “Create new private DNS zone” and CDP creates and manages
                        a private DNS zone for you in the provided existing resource group.


Select your existing private DNS zone.

If you select to create a private endpoint and you would like
                    for CDP to create a new VNet, CDP creates a private DNS zone for you. For
                  more information, refer to Private endpoint for Azure
                  Postgres. 


Create Public IPs
This option is disabled by default when CCM is enabled and enabled by default
                  when CCM is disabled.
                  


Proxies


Select Proxy Configuration
Select a proxy configuration if previously registered. For more information
                  refer to Setting up a proxy server.


Security Access Settings


Select Security Access Type (Required)
This determines inbound security group settings that allow connections to the
                  Data Lake and Data Hub clusters from your organization’s computers. You have two options:
Create new security groups - Allows you to provide custom CIDR IP
                      range for all new security groups that will be created for the Data Lake and
                      Data Hub clusters so that users from your organization can access cluster UIs
                      and SSH to the nodes. This must be a valid CIDR IP in IPv4 range. For example: 192.168.27.0/24 allows access
                        from 192.168.27.0 through 192.168.27.255. You can specify multiple CIDR IP
                        ranges separated with a comma. For example:
                        192.168.27.0/24,192.168.28.0/24.If you use this setting, several
                        security groups will get created: one for each Data Lake host group the Data
                        Lake and one for each host group), one for each FreeIPA host group, and one
                        for RDS; Furthermore, the security group settings specified will be
                        automatically used for Data Hub, Data Warehouse, and Machine Learning
                        clusters created as part of the environment. 

Provide existing security groups (Only available for an existing VPC)
                      - Allows you to select two existing security groups, one for Knox-installed
                      nodes and another for all other nodes. If you select this option, refer to
                        Security groups to ensure that you
                      open all ports required for your users to access environment resources.



SSH Settings


New SSH public key (Required)
Upload a public key directly from your computer.
noteCDP does not use this SSH key. The matching private key can be used by
                      your CDP administrator for root-level access to the instances provisioned for
                      the Data Lake and Data Hub. 



Add tags
You can optionally add tags to be created for your resources on Azure. Refer
                  to Defining custom tags.


Click on Advanced Options to make additional configurations for FreeIPA. The
        following options are available:
          

Parameter
Description



Hardware and Storage
For each host group you can specify an instance type. For more information
                    on instance types, see Sizes for virtual machines in Azure.


Cluster Extensions


Recipes
You can optionally select and attach previously registered recipes to run
                    on FreeIPA nodes. For more information, see Recipes.



Click Next.
On the Storage page, provide the following information: 


 Parameter 
 Description 



Logs 


Logger Identity (Required)
Select the Logger managed identity created in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


Logs Location Base (Required)
Provide the ADLS Gen2 location created for log storage in Minimal setup for cloud storage.


Backup Location Base 
Provide the ADLS Gen2 location created for FreeIPA and Data Lake backups in
                      Minimal setup for cloud storage. If not
                    provided, the default Backup Location Base uses the Logs Location Base.


Telemetry


Enable Workload Analytics
Enables Cloudera Observability support for workload clusters created within
                    this environment. When this setting is enabled, diagnostic information about job
                    and query execution is sent to Cloudera Observability. For more information,
                    refer to Enabling workload analytics and logs
                      collection.


Enable Deployment Cluster Logs Collection
When this option is enabled. the logs generated during deployments will be
                    automatically sent to Cloudera. For more information, refer to Enabling workload analytics and logs
                      collection.



Click on Register Environment to trigger environment registration.
The environment creation takes about 60 minutes. The creation of the FreeIPA server and Data Lake cluster is triggered. You can monitor the progress from the web UI. Once the environment creation has been completed, its status will change to “Running”.

After you finish
After your environment is running, perform the following steps:

You must assign roles to specific users and groups for the environment so that selected
        users or user groups can access the environment. Next, you need to perform user sync. For
        steps, refer to Enabling admin and user access to environments.
You must onboard your users and/or groups for cloud storage. For steps, refer to Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud
          storage.
You must create Ranger policies for your users. For instructions on how to access your Data Lake, refer to Accessing Data Lake services. Once you've accessed Ranger, create Ranger policies to determine which users have access to which databases and tables.


