Restricting access for CDP services that create their own security groups on AzureCloudera Docs
Restricting access for CDP services that create their own security groups on Azure
The security groups that you select to use during environment registration are only used
  for the Data Lake, FreeIPA, Data Hubs, and Operational Databases running in that environment. The
  Kubernetes-based CDP services (Data Warehouse and Machine Learning) create their own security
  groups with rules that should be restricted separately. 
The following table explains where and when you can restrict these rules:

note
If you do not restrict these endpoints, CDP defaults to opening access to all
     (0.0.0.0/0).





CDP service
Type of access that can be restricted 
When and where to restrict
Link to related documentation



Data Engineering
Admin access to Kubenetes endpoints can be restricted. 
Restrict admin access to Kubernetes endpoints during enabling Data
        Engineering via the Whitelist IPs parameter. 
Enabling Cloudera Data Engineering


Data Warehouse
Both admin access to Kubernetes endpoints and end user access are always set to the
        same range that can be set in environment activation settings.While the access
         to the Kubernetes endpoints is a combination of the Cloudera Control Plane’s CIDR and your
         CIDR provided in environment activation settings, the access to the end user access points
         (JDBC, UI) is only your CIDR provided in environment activation settings.
In Data Warehouse environment’s activation settings. 
Editing environment details



Machine Learning
There are two separate options, one for admin access to Kubernetes endpoints
        and another for end user access.
During ML workspace provisioning, under Network Settings: 
The Load Balancer Source Ranges parameter can be used to restrict end
          user access.
Selecting the checkmark Restrict access to Kubernetes API server to
           authorized IP ranges allows you to restrict admin access to Kubernetes
          endpoints.

Provisioning ML Workspaces




Parent topic: Managing an environment