About Atlas High AvailabilityCloudera Docs
About Atlas High Availability
Atlas supports multiple instances of the service in an active-passive configuration. 
You can deploy multiple instances of the service on different physical hosts in
            a cluster. One of these instances is automatically selected as an 'active' instance to
            respond to user requests. All other instances are deemed 'passive'. If the 'active'
            instance is unavailable either because it is deliberately stopped, or due to an
            unexpected failure, one of the other instances automatically changes to an 'active' mode
            and starts servicing requests.
An 'active' instance is the only instance that can respond to user requests. A 'passive'
            instance redirects requests coming to it directly (using HTTP redirect) to the current
            'active' instance. A passive instance does not service any requests. However, all
            instances (both active and passive), respond to admin status requests that return
            heartbeat information about that instance.
How Atlas High Availability works
Atlas uses Zookeeper to know about all available Atlas service instances
                within the cluster. It uses Zookeeper’s electoral election to determine the instance
                that needs to be active. Once the leader is elected, other instances set themselves
                as passive and do not participate in servicing requests. Atlas thus achieves
                active-passive configuration for high availability (HA). The active instance is also
                the one that processes the notification messages from the hook.
When an instance goes down or is turned off, Zookeeper’s electoral election
                starts and elects a new leader. ZooKeeper ensures that one instance is always
                available for processing requests. 
The other server performs the real (active) work only when the “active” server goes
                down. 
Currently, the only way to change the mode from active to passive is to
                shutdown the active mode; the other server instance receives a message (through
                    ZooKeeper) to make itself active.

note
You cannot change an instance from active to passive mode using
                        Cloudera Manager.




