Monitoring Data Engineering service resources with Grafana dashboardsCloudera Docs
Monitoring Data Engineering service resources with Grafana dashboards  
Grafana is a visualisation and analytics software that enables the development of
        dashboards to monitor metrics data. You can access pre-built Grafana dashboards to monitor
        your jobs and virtual clusters in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE).
 The CDP metrics are stored centrally in the Prometheus database and monitored by
            Prometheus. Grafana uses these metrics for data visualization. Your workload databases
            are not involved in any way. 
You can immediately view the following pre-built dashboards for viewing runtime metrics
            in CDE: 
Kubernetes Dashboard
This dashboard includes generalized visualizations of CDE job run statuses. It
                displays the following information: 
Number of succeeded, failed, and killed jobs for the given period
Total number of jobs in the Starting phase 
Total number of jobs in the Running phase 


Virtual Cluster Metrics Dashboard
This dashboard includes visualizations of service requests, pod counts and job
                statuses for the selected Virtual Cluster. The available metrics are:
Time series of CPU requests of running pods (includes virtual cluster
                        service overhead) 
Time series of memory requests of running pods (includes virtual cluster
                        service overhead) 
The response time of Livy's requests
Time series for the number of pods in running and pending states 
Total number of running pods and pending pods 
Time series of starting and running jobs, and the total number of successful
                        jobs



Connecting to Grafana dashboards in Cloudera Data Engineering Private CloudThis topic describes how to access Grafana dashboards for advanced visualization of     Virtual Cluster's metrics such as memory and CPU usage in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)     Private Cloud.Accessing Grafana dashboardsCloudera provides pre-built Grafana dashboards comprising metrics data, charts, and     other visuals. You can access pre-built Grafana dashboards to monitor your jobs and virtual     clusters in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE). You can immediately view the Kubernetes and Virtual     Cluster Metrics pre-built dashboards in CDE.