Connecting to Grafana dashboards in Cloudera Data Engineering Private CloudCloudera Docs
Connecting to Grafana dashboards in Cloudera Data Engineering Private Cloud
This topic describes how to access Grafana dashboards for advanced visualization of
    Virtual Cluster's metrics such as memory and CPU usage in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)
    Private Cloud.
CDE ServiceVirtual Cluster

In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the Data
              Engineering tile. The Home page displays.
Click Administration in the left navigation menu and locate a
            Service in the Services column and click Service Details on the
            environment for which you want to see the Grafana dashboard.
            
In the Administration/Service page, click Grafana
              Charts. A read-only version of the Grafana interface opens in a new tab in
            your browser. 
In the Grafana dashboard, click the grid icon  in the left navigation menu. 
Select Virtual Cluster Metrics under the Dashboards pane. 
Click on a virtual cluster name from the dropdown list to view the Grafana charts.  
        Information about CPU requests, memory requests, jobs, and other information related
          to the virtual cluster is displayed.



In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the Data
              Engineering tile. The CDE Home page displays.
In
            the
              Virtual Clusters section, navigate to the virtual cluster for
            which you want to see the Grafana dashboard.
Click View Cluster Details for the virtual
            cluster. The Administration/Virtual Cluster page is
              displayed.
Click Grafana Charts. A read-only version of the Grafana
              interface opens in a new tab in your browser.

Information about CPU requests, memory requests, jobs, and other information related
              to the virtual cluster is displayed.
In the Virtual Cluster Metrics page, click on a virtual cluster
            name from the Virtual Cluster dropdown list to view the Grafana
            charts of that virtual cluster.


note You must first view the charts using the GRAFANA
        CHARTS link. Only then the charts in the Charts tab get
      loaded. Otherwise, it displays the The web page at
          https://service.cde-nrjcrwg7.apps.apps.shared-01.kcloud.cldr.com/grafana/d/usZz/kubernetes?kiosk
        might be temporarily down or it may have moved permanently to a new web address.  
      error. 


Parent topic: Monitoring Data Engineering service resources with Grafana dashboards