Adding a Cloudera Data Engineering serviceCloudera Docs
Adding a Cloudera Data Engineering service
Before you can use the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service, you
    must add the service to an environment that you want to use CDE
    on.

Make sure that you have a working environment for which you want to
        enable the CDE service. For more information about environments, see
          Environments.


In the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) console, click the
            Data Engineering tile. The CDE Home page
          displays.

Click Administration on the left navigation menu, click  at the top to enable CDE service for an
          environment.
If the environment does not have any CDE service, the page displays a
            Enable a Service button that launches the same wizard.

Enter a Name for the CDE service you are creating. 

In the Environment text box, select or type the name of the
          environment that you want to enable CDE for. The displayed list dynamically updates to
          show environment names matching your input. When you see the correct environment, click on
          it to select it.

In Resource Pool (Technical Preview), select the name of the
          resource pool that you want to enable CDE service for. 
For information about configuring resource pool and capacity, see Managing cluster resources using Quota Management (Technical Preview).

In Capacity (Technical Preview), use the slider to set the
          maximum number of CPU cores and the maximum memory in gigabytes that can be used by this
          CDE service.
Optional: 
Under Additional Configurations, in NFS Storage
            Class, specify the name of the custom NFS storage class. The storage
          provisioner must support ReadWriteMany access modes. By default, CDE
          uses CephFS provisioner in the OpenShift Container Platform and
            Longhorn provisioner in the Embedded Container Service. If it does
          not exist, the CDE service initialisation fails.
You can specify the name of the Portworx storage class specified during the CDP Data
          Services installation to use the Portworx storage class. The storage provisioner must
          support ReadWriteMany access mode. You can obtain the name of the Portworx storage class
          from your cluster by running the kubectl get sc command. The CDE
          service and virtual clusters will now use the Portworx storage class instead of the
          default storage class of the platform. For more information, see Installing in
              internet environment and Storage Classes. 

Default Virtual Cluster selection is enabled by default to
          create a default virtual cluster after enabling a CDE service. This helps you to create
          your jobs easily, without having to wait to create a CDE virtual cluster as mentioned in
          Creating virtual clusters, making the onboarding smoother. You can turn this toggle off if
          you do not wish to use a default virtual cluster.
Click Enable.
The CDE Home page displays the status of
      the CDE service initialization. You can view logs for the service by
      clicking on the service vertical ellipsis (three dots) menu, and then
      clicking View Logs.

Related informationInstalling in internet environmentStorage classes