Configuring mutual TLS for Schema RegistryCloudera Docs
Configuring mutual TLS for Schema Registry
Schema Registry supports two-way TLS authentication, also known as mutual TLS or
        mTLS. Learn how to configure mutual TLS for Schema Registry.

In one-way (or regular) TLS, the server certificate is validated by the
                client to check if the server can be trusted. Two-way TLS authentication allows both
                the client and the server to validate each other by both parties sending their
                respective certificates to the other side.

You must have enabled server-side TLS as described in
                Configuring TLS Encryption Manually for Schema Registry.

Go to your cluster in Cloudera Manager.

Select Schema Registry from the list of services.

Go to the Configuration tab.

Search for the SSL Client Authentication property, and
                    select the checkbox.






Click Save Changes.


mTLS integrates with Ranger authorization as well. The TLS certificate sent
                by the client contains a subject field which has a string value. By
                default, the contents of this value is passed to Ranger which performs authorization
                against it.
The value of the subject field may have a complex value
                and you might want to use a regular expression to extract the value of the
                principal. In this case you can set the rules in Cloudera Manager.


Go to your cluster in Cloudera Manager.
Select Schema Registry from the list of services.
Go to the Configuration tab.
Search for the SSL Client Authentication Mapping
                            Rules property, and set it.

The mapping rules are in the same format as used for Kerberos
                            principals. For more information, see:https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=89071740.
Search for the Schema Registry Kerberos Name Rules
                        property, and set it.For example, the Schema Registry Kerberos Name Rules
                            property is set to
                                RULE:^CN=(.*?),OU=ServiceUsers.*$/$1/L in the
                            following image:


Click Save Changes.




Related informationConfigure TLS Encryption Manually for Schema RegistryParent topic: TLS encryption