Schema Registry authentication through OAuth2 JWT tokensCloudera Docs
Schema Registry authentication through OAuth2 JWT tokens
You can use OAuth2 JSON Web Token (JWT) in Schema Registry for authentication.
    Authorization continues to be implemented in Ranger; however, you can obtain the principal from
    a JWT token.
The flow for authenticating with OAuth2 tokens is as follows:
A client requests a token from the OAuth2 service.During Schema Registry startup the
            application obtains the public keys needed for validating the incoming tokens.
The client sends the HTTP requests to Schema Registry and these requests contain the
          bearer token in the HTTP header.
Schema Registry validates the token.

The following image shows the authentication flow with OAuth2 tokens:

noteSchema Registry currently supports JWT tokens only. There is no support for opaque
        tokens. The following is an example of a JWT
        token:{
  "kid": "3",
  "alg": "HS256"
}
-------------------------------------------------
{
  "iss": "sender",
  "aud": "receiver",
  "exp": 1644492815,
  "jti": "5vgglGQCjC9_WZJMJg7mHQ",
  "iat": 1644492515,
  "sub": "abigel"
}
-------------------------------------------------
<signature>


The flow for authorization is as follows:
Once the token is validated, the principal is extracted from the JWT token. By default,
          the principal is stored in the sub field.
The principal is passed to Ranger which performs the authorization.


JWT algorithmsSimilarly to Kafka, Schema Registry also uses Jose4J for validating the JWT tokens and   their signatures.Public key and secret storageLearn about public key, private key, and secret in JSON Web Token (JWT). Also learn     about JSON Web Key (JWK), keystore, and property that Schema Registry supports for storing the     public key or the secret.Authentication using OAuth2 with KerberosIt is possible to have both Kerberos and OAuth2 enabled at the same time for Schema   Registry.Schema Registry server configurationLearn how to configure general settings for Schema Registry server. Also learn about the   extra parameters which you can set when storage type is JWK, keystore, or property.Configuring the Schema Registry clientLearn how to configure the Schema Registry client to access the server.