Register a GCP environment from CDP UICloudera Docs
Register a GCP environment from CDP UI
Once you’ve met the Google Cloud cloud provider requirements, register your GCP
    environment.
Before you begin
This assumes that you have already fulfilled the environment prerequisites described in GCP requirements.
Required role:
EnvironmentCreator
Steps



Navigate to the Management Console > Environments > Register
              environment.





On the On the Register Environment page, provide the following information:page,
      provide the following information:

Parameter
Description



General Information


Environment Name (Required)
Enter a name for your environment. The name:
Must be between 5 and 28 characters long.
Can only include lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens.
Must start with a lowercase letter.



Description
Enter a description for your environment.


Select Cloud Provider (Required)
Select Google Cloud.


Google Cloud Platform Credential
                      (Required)


Select Credential
Select an existing credential or select Create new credential. For
            instructions on how to create a credential for Google Cloud, refer to Create a provisioning credential for
           GCP.



Click Next.
On the Data Access and Data Lake Scaling page, provide the following
      information:

Parameter
Description



Data Lake Settings


Data Lake Name (Required)
Enter a name for the Data Lake cluster that will be created for this environment.
          The name:
Must be between 5 and 100 characters long
Must contain lowercase letters
Cannot contain uppercase letters 
Must start with a letter
Can only include the following accepted characters are: a-z, 0-9, -.



Data Lake Version (Required)
Select Cloudera Runtime version that should be deployed for your Data Lake. The
          latest stable version is used by default.All Data Hub clusters provisioned
           within this Data Lake will be using the same Runtime version.Note: Google Cloud environments can only be provisioned in CDP with Runtime
           version 7.2.8 or newer.


Data Access and Audit


Assumer Service Account (Required)
Select the IDBroker service account created in Minimum setup for cloud
                        storage.


Storage Location Base (Required)
Select the Google Storage location created for data in Minimum setup for cloud storage.


Data Access Service Account (Required)
Select the Data Lake Admin service account created in Minimum setup for cloud
                        storage.


Ranger Audit Service Account (Required)
Select the Ranger Audit service account created in Minimum setup for cloud storage.


IDBroker Mappings
We recommend that you leave this out and set it up after registering your
          environment as part of Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud
          storage.


Scale (Required)
Select Data Lake scale. By default, “Light Duty” is used. For more information on
          Data Lake scale, refer to Data Lake scale.


Click on Advanced Options to make additional configurations for your Data Lake.
          The following options are available:
            

Parameter
Description



Hardware and Storage
For each host group you can specify an instance type. For more
                      information on instance types, see Machine type families.


Cluster Extensions


Recipes
You can optionally select and attach previously registered recipes to run
                      on a specific Data Lake host group. For more information, see Recipes.



Click Next.
On the Region, Networking and Security page, provide the following information:

Parameter
Description



Region


Select Region (Required)
Select the region where your VPC network is located. 


Select Zone (Required)
Select a zone within the selected region.


Network


Use shared VPC
This option is disabled by default. Enable this if you would like to use
                    your existing shared VPC. Next enter:
Host project ID
Network name 
Subnet name(s). If providing multiple, provide a comma separated
                        list.



Select Network (Required)
Select the existing VPC network that you created as a
                    prerequisite in the VPC network and subnets step. All CDP
                    resources will be provisioned into this network.


Select Subnets (Required)
Select at least one existing subnet.


Create Public IPs
This option is disabled by default when CCM is enabled and
                    enabled by default when CCM is disabled.


Proxies
Select a proxy configuration if previously registered. For more
                    information refer to Setting up a proxy server.


Security Access
                    Settings


Select Security Access Type (Required)
You have two options:
Do not create firewall rule: If you are using a shared
                        VPC you can set the firewall rules directly on the VPC. If you did so, you
                        can select this option. 

Provide existing firewall rules: If not all of your
                        firewall rules are set directly on the VPC, provide the previously created
                        firewall rules for SSH an UI access. You should select two existing firewall
                        rules, one for Knox gateway-installed nodes and another for all other nodes.
                        You may select the same firewall rule in both places if needed. 
For information on required ports, see Firewall rules.


SSH Settings


New SSH public key (Required)
Upload a public key directly from your computer.Note: CDP does
                      not use this SSH key. The matching private key can be used by your CDP
                      administrator for root-level access to the instances provisioned for the Data
                      Lake and Data Hub.


Add tags
You can optionally add tags to be created for your resources on
                    GCP. Refer to Defining custom tags.


Click on Advanced Options to make additional configurations for FreeIPA. The
          following options are available:
            

Parameter
Description



Hardware and Storage
For each host group you can specify an instance type. For more
                      information on instance types, see Machine type families.


Cluster Extensions


Recipes
You can optionally select and attach previously registered recipes to run
                      on FreeIPA nodes. For more information, see Recipes.



Click Next.
On the Storage page, provide the following information:

Parameter
Description



Logs


Logger Service Account (Required)
Select the Logger service account created in Minimum setup for cloud
                        storage.


Logs Location Base (Required)
Select the Google Storage location created for logs in Minimum setup for cloud storage.
                  


Backup Location Base
Select the Google Storage location created for FreeIPA backups in Minimum setup for cloud storage. If not
                    provided, the default Backup Location Base uses the Logs Location Base.


Telemetry


Enable Workload Analytics
Enables Cloudera Observability support for workload clusters created
                    within this environment. When this setting is enabled, diagnostic information
                    about job and query execution is sent to the Cloudera Observability. 


Enable Deployment Cluster Logs Collection
When this option is enabled. the logs generated during
                    deployments will be automatically sent to Cloudera. 


Click Register Environment to trigger environment registration.
The environment creation takes about 60 minutes. The creation of the FreeIPA server and Data
     Lake cluster is triggered. You can monitor the progress from the web UI. Once the environment
     creation has been completed, its status will change to “Running”.


After you finish

After your environment is running, perform the following steps:
You must assign roles to specific users and groups for the environment so that selected
          users or user groups can access the environment. Next, you need to perform user sync. For
          steps, refer to Enabling admin and user access to
          environments.
You must onboard your users and/or groups for cloud storage. For steps, refer to Onboarding CDP users and groups for cloud
          storage.
You must create Ranger policies for your users. For instructions on how to access your
          Data Lake, refer to Accessing Data Lake services. Once you've accessed
          Ranger, create Ranger policies to determine which users
          have access to which databases and tables.


Parent topic: Register your first environment