Restrictions for upgrading R and Python packagesCloudera Docs
Restrictions for upgrading R and Python packages
Some R and Python packages should not be upgraded because doing so will break the
    Workbench UI.

For R Runtimes

Do not upgrade the Cairo or RServe packages in your
      projects using R Runtimes. If you do, you may be unable to launch sessions, jobs, experiments,
      or applications. 
If these packages are upgraded, you will need to start a new project or to delete the
      directory .local/lib using the CDSW/CML Files UI ("show hidden").

For Python Runtimes

Do not upgrade the ipykernel package or its dependencies
        (ipython, traitlets, jupyter_client, and
        tornado) in your project using Python Runtimes. If you do, you may be
      unable to launch sessions, jobs, experiments, or applications.
If these packages are upgraded, you will need to start a new project or to delete the
      directory .local/lib using the CDSW/CML Files UI ("show hidden").
Python Runtimes in CML fail to import the setuptools Python library and
        can fail installing some Python packages
Python Runtimes in CML fail to import the setuptools Python library and
      therefore can fail installing some Python packages when the library
        setuptools is present on the Runtime or is installed into the CML project
      with version 60.0.0 or higher.
Python 3.10 Runtimes from the 2023.05 Runtime release ship with a newer version of
        setuptools, so customers can run into this issue when they are using that
      Runtime. Also they can run into this issue when they are using Custom Runtimes that has a
      newer setuptools library version or when they install a new
        setuptools version into their project (regardless of what Runtime they
      use). 
Workaround: Set the environmental variable
        SETUPTOOLS_USE_DISTUTILS=stdlib either on a project level under
        Project Settings -> Advanced or on a workspace level under
        Site Administration -> Runtime -> Environment variables.

