Using Conda RuntimeCloudera Docs
Using Conda Runtime
 Users now can create their own Python or R Conda environments within their CML
    Projects that they can use in the JupyterLab editor.
Environments, installed packages, and kernel specifications are persisted on the Project
        file system. An example flow for creating a new Python 3.10 Conda environment is the
        following:
conda create --name myenv python=3.10
conda activate myenv
conda install ipykernel
ipython kernel install --user --name=myenv


JupyterLab Conda Tech Preview Runtime
You might run into some known issues while using JupyterLab Conda Runtime.
Sessions
When starting a Notebook or a Console for a specific environment, the installed
              packages will be available and the interpreter used to evaluate the contents of the
              Notebook or Console will be the one installed in the environment. However, the Conda
              environment is not "activated" in these sessions, therefore commands like
                !which python will return with the base Python 3.10 interpreter on
              the Runtime. The recommended ways to modify a Conda environments or install packages
              are the following:
conda commands must be used with the -n or
                    --name argument to specify the environment, for example
                    conda -n myenv install pandas
When installing packages with pip, use the %pip magic to
                  install packages in the active kernel’s environment, for example %pip
                    install pandas

Applications and Jobs
To start an Application or Job, first create a launcher Python script containing the
              following line: !source activate <conda_env_name> && python <job
                / application script.py>
When starting the Application or Job, select the launcher script as the
              "Script".
Models
Models are currently not supported for the Conda Runtime.
Spark
Spark is not supported in JupyterLab Notebooks and Consoles.
Spark workloads are supported in activated Conda environments in JupyterLab
              Terminals, or in Jobs or Applications.
The CDSW libraries for Python and R are not available for the Conda Runtimes. 


Parent topic: Using JupyterLab with ML Runtimes