How to Configure Browsers for Kerberos AuthenticationCloudera Docs
How to Configure Browsers for Kerberos
    Authentication

The browser configurations below are required only for those browsers used to connect to
      component web interfaces with the Require Authentication for HTTP Web Consoles
      configuration property enabled. The settings below enable the respective browser to use SPNEGO
      to negotiate Kerberos authentication for the browser. The host running the browser must have a
      valid TGT to authenticate to Kerberos Web Consoles.

Mozilla Firefox


Open the low level Firefox configuration page by loading the
              about:config page.
In the Search text box, enter:
              network.negotiate-auth.trusted-uris
Double-click the
              network.negotiate-auth.trusted-uris preference
            and enter the hostname or the domain of the web server that is
            protected by Kerberos HTTP SPNEGO. Separate multiple domains and
            hostnames with a comma.
Click OK.



Internet Explorer
Follow the steps below to configure Internet Explorer.
Configuring the Local Intranet Domain
Open Internet Explorer and click the Settings gear icon in the
            top-right corner. Select Internet options.
Select the Security tab.
Select the Local Intranet zone and click the Sites
            button.
Make sure that the first two options, Include all local
              (intranet) sites not listed in other zones and Include all
              sites that bypass the proxy server are checked.
Click Advanced and add the names of the domains that are
            protected by Kerberos HTTP SPNEGO, one at a time, to the list of
            websites. For example, myhost.example.com. Click
              Close.
Click OK to save your configuration changes.

Configuring Intranet Authentication
Click the Settings gear icon in the top-right corner. Select
              Internet options.
Select the Security tab.
Select the Local Intranet zone and click the Custom
              level... button to open the Security Settings - Local
              Intranet Zone dialog box.
Scroll down to the User Authentication options and select
              Automatic logon only in Intranet zone.
Click OK to save these changes.

Verifying Proxy Settings
Perform these steps only if you have a proxy server already enabled.
Click the Settings gear icon in the top-right corner. Select
              Internet options.
Select the Connections tab and click LAN
            Settings.
Verify that the proxy server Address and Port number
            settings are correct.
Click Advanced to open the Proxy Settings dialog
            box.
Add the Kerberos-protected domains to the Exceptions
            field.
Click OK to save any changes.


Google Chrome
For Windows: 
Open the Control Panel to access the Internet Options dialog.
            Use the same configuration as detailed in Configuration changes required are the same as
            those described above for Internet Explorer. 

For Linux or MacOS: 
Add the --auth-server-whitelist parameter to the
              google-chrome command. For example, to run Chrome
            from a Linux prompt, run the google-chrome command
            as follows:
            > google-chrome --auth-server-whitelist = "hostname/domain"





