How to Set Up a Gateway Host to Restrict Access to the ClusterCloudera Docs
How to Set Up a Gateway Host to Restrict Access to the Cluster

The steps below configure a firewall-protected Hadoop cluster that allows
      access only through the host configured as the gateway. Clients access the
      cluster through the gateway using the REST API, for example, using HttpFS
      (which provides REST access to HDFS) or using Oozie, which allows REST
      access for submitting and monitoring jobs.

Related informationAdding a ServiceRole InstancesCloudera Security OverviewPortsAPIs for accessing HDFSAccessing the Oozie server with the Oozie Client
Installing and Configuring the Firewall and Gateway

Follow these steps:

Choose a cluster host to be the gateway host.
Following the instructions in Adding a Service or Role Instances, add the
          roles and services that you want to be available. For example, you can add the
            HttpFS role to the HDFS service, or add
          the Oozie service to your cluster.
If you have not already done so, add the Oozie service to your
          cluster, following the instructions in Adding a Service. Assign the
            Oozie Server role to your selected gateway host.
Configure your firewall to block access to all cluster nodes from outside the cluster,
          with the exception of the gateway host. Open the ports to the gateway host for the
          services you want to make available. In general, Cloudera recommends that you only allow
          access to the gateway host from clients that require access. For more information on the
          ports used by Cloudera software, see Ports.
If you have not already done so, enable security for your cluster, including Kerberos
          authentication, Apache Sentry authorization, and encryption for data at rest or in
          transit. For more information, see Cloudera Security Overview.




Accessing HDFS

With the Hadoop client:
All of the standard hadoop fs commands work; just
        make sure to specify -fs webhdfs://HOSTNAME:14000. For
        example (where GATEWAYHOST is the hostname of the
        gateway machine):
$ hadoop fs -fs webhdfs://GATEWAYHOST:14000 -cat /user/me/myfile.txt
Hello World!
Without the Hadoop client:
You can run all of the standard  hadoop fs commands by using
        the WebHDFS REST API and any program that can do GET
        , PUT,  POST, and
        DELETE requests; for example:
$ curl "http://GATEWAYHOST:14000/webhdfs/v1/user/me/myfile.txt?op=OPEN&user.name=me"
Hello World!
importantThe user.name parameter is valid only if security is disabled. In a secure cluster, you must a initiate a valid Kerberos session.
In general, the command will look like this:
curl "http://GATEWAYHOST/webhdfs/v1/PATH?[user.name=USER&]op=…"
You can find a full explanation of the commands in the WebHDFS REST API documentation (see
          APIs for accessing HDFS).



Submitting and Monitoring Jobs

The Oozie REST API supports the direct submission of jobs for
        MapReduce, Pig, and Hive; Oozie automatically creates a workflow with a
        single action. For any other action types, or to run anything more
        complicated than a single job, you must create an actual workflow.
        Required files (JAR files, input data) must already exist on
        HDFS; if they do not, you can use HttpFS to upload the files.
With the Oozie client:
All of the standard Oozie commands will work. You can find a full explanation of the
        commands in the documentation for the command-line utilities (see Accessing the Oozie
          server with the Oozie Client).
Without the Oozie client:
You can run all of the standard Oozie commands by using the REST API and any program that
        can do GET, PUT, and POST requests. You can find a full explanation of the commands in the
        Oozie Web Services API documentation.


