How to Configure Browser-based Interfaces to Require Kerberos AuthenticationCloudera Docs
How to Configure Browser-based Interfaces to Require Kerberos Authentication
Access to the web (browser-based) consoles for HTTP services, such as HDFS, MapReduce,
    and YARN roles can be restricted to only those users with valid Kerberos credentials. Required Role: Configurator, Cluster Administrator, or Full Administrator
After configuring the cluster services as detailed below, the web service and the browser
      negotiate the authentication process using SPNEGO. After following the steps detailed below
      for any specific service, all browsers that connect to the service over HTTP must have their
      configurations modified to handle SPNEGO. See How to Configure Browsers for Kerberos
        Authentication.
To require authentication for HTTP services on the cluster, including
      web-based user interfaces, such as the Cloudera Manager Admin Console,
      among others:
From the Clusters tab, select the service (HDFS, MapReduce,
          or YARN) for which you want to enable authentication.
Click the Configuration tab.
Under the Scope filter, click
              service_name
            (Service-Wide).
Under the Category filter, click
            Security to display the security
          configuration options.
In the Enable Kerberos Authentication for HTTP
            Web-Consoles setting, click the box to activate
          authentication requirement for the selected
            service_name (Service-Wide).
Click Save Changes to save the change. 

Cloudera Manager generates new credentials for the service. When
      the process finishes, restart all roles for that service.
Repeat this process for the other services for which you want to
      require Kerberos authentication.
Configure your browser to support authentication to the HTTP services by following the
      appropriate steps for your browser in How to Configure Browsers for Kerberos
        Authentication. 


