



























































New Year - New Skills
















































New Year - New Skills






A chance to improve your knowledge and sharpen your data skills with a selection of our best and most informative content from 2021.






















Enroll now








                    
                    
                        
                         First Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                




Middle Name



                    
                    
                        
                         Last Name
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Job Title
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Business Email
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Company
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                






                    
                    
                        
                        Phone
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                        
                    
                







Please select your topics of interest



Streaming and DataFlow







Data Engineering







Data Warehouse







Operational Database







Machine Learning and AI










 

                            
                            
                            Yes, I would like to be contacted by Cloudera for newsletters, promotions, events and marketing activities. Please read our privacy and data policy.






 

                                
                                
                                Yes, I consent to my information being shared with Cloudera's solution partners to offer related products and services. Please read our privacy and data policy.








                            
                            
                             I agree to Cloudera's
                            terms and conditions.
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        








                
                
                    
                    Submit
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                

                
                
                    
                    Reset
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                
                






























































Get the content you need to sharpen your skills and learn to manage and secure the data lifecycle in any cloud or datacenter. 


How does it work?
Week 1, 10 - 16 January, 2022
Week 2, 17 - 23 January, 2022
5 topics, 2 weeks, to start your knowledge journey. You can choose as many topics as you like; scroll down to see the list of what we have on offer. Each topic is delivered in weekly shots, with a variety of material like demos, webinars, blog posts, research and reports. Don’t worry, each week we’ll send you just the right amount of content for each hour of learning you select.
Get your grades!
Test your knowledge in the last week of the program with a short exam to assess your improvement and get your digital certificate in big data proficiency.
Here's what's on offer:







Streaming and DataFlow







Collect flows, streams, and analytics for the lifecycle
Easily ingest, route, manage, and deliver data-at-rest and data-in-motion from the Edge, any cloud, or the data center to any downstream system with built-in end-to-end security and provenance. CDP Data Hub uses Apache NiFi for flow management and Apache Kafka for streams messaging—both part of Cloudera DataFlow, a comprehensive, real-time streaming data platform that delivers key insights and immediate actionable intelligence.












Data Engineering







Enrich, refine, structure, and prepare data for the lifecycle
Cloudera Data Engineering helps enrich, transform, and cleanse data, making it easy to create, execute, and manage end-to-end data pipelines. It executes a wide range of data processing workloads in an extremely high-performance manner including batch and real-time stream processing using Apache Spark and Spark Streaming, supported by multiple storage options including Apache HBase, Apache Kudu, and cloud object storage.












Data Warehouse







Provide self-service access to reporting for the lifecycle
Deliver business insights on massive amounts of verified data to thousands of users at extreme speed and scale without compromising compliance and blowing budgets. Seamlessly and securely moving on-premises workloads to any cloud, Cloudera Data Warehouse outperforms shadow IT by keeping up with evolving business requirements and meeting SLAs with self-service access to reports, dashboards, and advanced analytics.












Operational DB







Serve all types of data from all sources for the lifecycle
Cloudera Operational Database serves structured data alongside unstructured data within a unified end-to-end open-source platform, ensuring decision making is driven by stream processing and real-time analytics on continuously changing data. Users can serve real-time data at scale, with high concurrency and low latency, and data science at scale in order to easily build, score, and deploy machine learning models into production.












Machine Learning and AI







Operationalise predicting for the lifecycle
Accelerate enterprise data science from research to production at scale with self-service, collaborative workflows for building and operationalising machine learning models. Using Python, R, and Scala directly in the web browser, Cloudera Machine Learning delivers a powerful self-service experience for data science teams to develop and prototype new machine learning capabilities and easily deploy them to production.














 











                            Contact Us
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                            
                        

US: +1 888 789 1488
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Outside the US: +1 650 362 0488



   








© 2023 Cloudera, Inc. All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy and Data Policy | Unsubscribe / Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Apache Hadoop and associated open source project names are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation. For a complete list of trademarks, click here.









Your form submission has failed.

This may have been caused by one of the following:

Your request timed out
A plugin/browser extension blocked the submission. If you have an ad blocking plugin please disable it and close this message to reload the page.












 






 




