Data Visualization in the Cloudera Data PlatformCloudera Docs
Data Visualization in the Cloudera Data Platform
Data Visualization in the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) enables you to explore data and
    communicate insights across the whole data lifecycle by using visual objects. The fast and easy
    self-service data visualization streamlines collaboration in data analytics through the common
    language of visuals.
Data Visualization is integrated with Cloudera Machine Learning (CML) and Cloudera
      Data Warehousing (CDW) workflows in CDP Public Cloud. You can also use it on-prem with
      Cloudera Data Science Workbench (CDSW) workflows. You can use the same visualization tool for
      structured, unstructured/text, and ML analytics, which means deeper insights and more advanced
      dashboard applications. The user interface is highly intuitive and enables you to build
      customized data applications with minimum time investment.
Advanced data analysis helps you to find data insights that answer your business
      problems. You can connect to your data in CDP, create rich visualizations on top of your
      datasets, build informative dashboards and applications, and publish them anywhere across the
      data lifecycle. This provides you with a dynamic and data-driven insight in any line of
      business, and lets you and other stakeholders discover, explore, and curate
        visualizations.


Self-service data visualization for the full data lifecycle
You can quickly and easily explore data, collaborate, and share insights across the data
      lifecycle. Delivered as a native part of CDP, Data Visualization provides a consistent and
      easy to use data visualization experience with intuitive and accessible drag-and-drop
      dashboards and custom application creation.
Intelligent and automated reporting
You can automate analytics dashboards for updates and consumption. You can set rules for
      scheduled updates, email reports, and dynamic alerts to ensure everyone has access to the
      latest insights.
Accelerating collaboration
You can build and publish custom dashboards and analytic applications in minutes and you can
      collaborate across teams to reach stakeholders and decision makers more effectively. Data
      Visualization enables collaboration and transparency between data, analytics, and business
      teams without moving data to third party platforms.
Secure and integrated visualizations native to CDP
Data Visualization provides out of the box functionality without additional integration
      efforts, moving data, or creating security issues. From a security and governance perspective,
      native integration with CDP means SSO for authentication and seamless integration with
      Cloudera Shared Data Experience (SDX) to manage user access and governance.

