Cloudera Data Visualization, Visuals interfaceCloudera Docs
Cloudera Data Visualization, Visuals interface
The VISUALS interface provides you with visualization features.
    You can initiate a number of operations when working with visuals.
The VISUALS interface of  Data Visualization has the following main
        parts:



Visuals top menu bar
Visuals side menu bar
Visuals preview area

Visuals top menu bar





The NEW DASHBOARD button allows you to start a new
            dashboard.


The NEW APP button allows you to start a new application.


The MOVE TO WORKSPACE button helps you to move selected items to
            a new workspace.noteThe button is only active if you select an item in the preview
              area.


The EXPORT button helps you to export visual artifacts to your
            default download folder.noteThe button is only active if you select an item in the
              preview area.


The DELETE button deletes the selected items.noteThe button is
              only active if you select an item in the preview area.



Visuals side menu bar





You can access standard groupings of visual artifacts by clicking
              All or My Favorites.


You can create a workspace by clicking the plus sign next to
              WORKSPACES.


Under WORKSPACES, you can see the default workspaces that are
            available: Private and Public. If you
            create a custom workspace, it is added to this side menu bar under
              Private. The number next to each workspace shows you how many
            dashboards are available in the workspace.


The Sample Dashboards button gives you access to examples
            available in Cloudera Data Visualization.



Visuals preview area







These buttons allow you to switch between displaying dashboards, visuals, apps, or all
            visual artifacts in the preview area.


These two icons allow you to switch between Grid View and
              List View. Grid View shows you thumbnail
            previews of your visuals, dashboards, and applications, while List
              View presents the same items vertically arranged as a single, continuous,
            multiple-line list.



Visuals interface – Grid view







You can open a visual artifact by clicking the tile. noteDashboards are marked with a
              teal icon in the bottom right corner, visuals are marked with a green icon, and apps
              use a purple icon.


You can preview information about a visual artifact by hovering over the title until a
            tooltip appears.

You can open a dashboard, visual, or app in Edit mode if you hover over the
          bottom right corner to change the original icon to a (blue
            pencil/edit) icon.

You can select visuals, dashboards, or apps if you hover over the top right corner of a
            tile and click the checkmark. You can deselect selected visuals and dashboards by
            clicking the checkmark again.noteWhen you select one or more items, the options for
              selected visuals become active in the top menu bar.



Visuals interface – List view
List View exposes the ID of the visuals, dashboards, and apps, and
        it also shows the number of related dashboards and linked visuals with their IDs.




You can open a dashboard, a visual, or an app in View mode if you click the
            reduced size image or the title of the visual artifact.


You can open a dashboard, a visual, or an app in Edit mode if you hover over the
            bottom right corner of the reduced size image to change the original icon to a
              (pencil/edit) icon and click it.


You can also click the (pencil/edit) at the end of the row if
            you want to edit a visual artifact.


You can select visuals, dashboards, and apps if you mark the check box that corresponds
            to the item.


You can delete a single visual artifact by clicking the
              (trash/delete) icon at the end of the row that corresponds to
            it.




Related informationHomepageData interfaceParent topic: Data Visualization user interface