Cloudera Data Visualization, Data interfaceCloudera Docs
Cloudera Data Visualization, Data interface
The information and functionalities available on the DATA
    interface of Data Visualization enable you to manage the data you need for your visualizations
    and to initiate a number of operations when working with datasets and data extracts.
The DATA interface shows your existing data connections. You can also
      add new connections to data sources, create new datasets, and work with your data tables and
      extracts. The interface has the following main parts:



DATA interface top menu bar
DATA interface side menu
DATA interface preview area

DATA top menu bar



The NEW DATASET button is for creating datasets. Datasets are
            needed for developing dashboards and visuals. You can also start a new dataset from a
            specified table.


For SQLite connections, the ADD DATA button enables you to
            introduce data from outside sources to enrich your datasets.


The Supplemental menu provides access to additional functions:
              
Clear result cache forces a reload of the full table
                definition.
Import Visual Artifacts enables you to restore or import
                visual artifacts from a backup JSON file. 
Direct Access lets you access data on the connections
                directly and build datasets from specific SQL queries, as opposed to starting with
                an existing table.




DATA side menu



The NEW CONNECTION button is for connecting to a new data
            source.


You can list all your datasets by clicking All Connections.


samples is the SQLite connection that contains the example
            datasets in CDP Data Visualization.



DATA preview area
The data preview area has three tabs: Datasets,
          Connection Explorer, and Data Extracts.

In the Datasets view, you can see all existing datasets on a
          connection available for creating visuals.




In the Connection Explorer view, you can manage functions related
          to the data on a connection. You can check the databases and preview table details in the
          data connection.




The database area shows all databases that you can access through the current
              connection. Selecting a database displays its tables.


The Datasets column lists the number of datasets that use the
              particular table as their initial definition.


You can click the New dataset link to create a dataset on a
              specific table.


To see more information about data tables, you can click the row of each table. The
              additional information is displayed under two tabs: Sample Data
              and Datasets.




In the Data Extracts view, you can see all existing data extracts
          on a connection.




Overall statistics


List of Data Extracts sourced from the current data connection





Related informationCustom homepagesHomepageVisuals interfaceAdding a dashboard to favoritesParent topic: Data Visualization user interface