Cloudera Data Visualization homepageCloudera Docs
Cloudera Data Visualization homepage
Cloudera Data Visualization (CDV) enables you to explore data and communicate insights
    across the whole data lifecycle by using visual objects.
When you log into CDV, you are taken to the HOME screen, which is the
      starting point to your data visualization journey. It displays recent views, favorites, and
      the application’s most-viewed content. You can start exploring sample dashboards or the
      in-tool Get Started guide.
Clicking HOME on the main navigation bar always takes you to the
      homepage.
The default CDV homepage has the following main parts:




Main navigation bar
Statistics banner
Preview area
Homepage side menu bar

For information on how to customize the homepage, see Custom
      Homepages.
Main navigation bar



The main navigation bar enables you to directly access the following
        interfaces and functions:

The HOME interface is described in this topic.

The SQL interface to manually build queries.

The VISUALS interface is for building visuals, dashboards, and
              applications. For more information, see Visuals interface.


The DATA interface for access to datasets, connections, and
              the Connection Explorer. For more information, see Data
                interface.


The search bar for natural language search. It is only visible if search is enabled
              in the Site Settings.


The notification center that contains application, server and site settings errors
              and warnings.
All users can see browser-level errors that might be affecting Cloudera Data
              Visualization. Additionaly, for admin users and users with permission to view activity
              logs, webserver errors (such issues with applying advanced site settings) are also
              available in the notification center.


The Settings menu provides access to various setting
                options:
With Set Homepage, you can define a custom homepage.
With Job Status, you can check job statuses.

If you have administrative privileges, you can use Site
                Administration to make changes to the following functionalities:
Activity Log displays all recorded events generated by
                  the data processing requests.
Users & Groups helps you to manage accounts of all
                  users and user groups, and grant them varying privileges and levels of
                  access.
Manage Roles helps you to define roles as a set of
                  privileges, and assign them to users or user groups.
Manage API Keys helps you to authenticate with the system
                  to perform some of the administrative tasks.
Email Templates helps you to create separate email
                  templates for communicating with various stakeholders, departments, or users who
                  have clearly defined roles in the organization.
Custom Styles helps you to apply styling options for the
                  appearance of visuals and applications.
Custom Colors helps you to define custom color palettes
                  for styling visuals and applications.
Custom Dates helps you to define custom sets of date
                  ranges and anchor them to a specific date and time.
Static Assets helps you to save and manage images, CSS
                  files, and JS files as static assets and use them across all reports to
                  standardize the appearance and behavior of visuals and dashboards.
Site Settings helps you to configure site-wide settings
                  and settings at the level of individual visuals, dashboards, and filters.



Help provides you with the following links:
What's New in
- a summary of the major new features and improvements of the latest
                    release
Documentation
- the official Cloudera Data Visualization documentation
Cloudera Support Hub
- access to the support and professional services portal on MyCloudera
It also displays the release number of the running instance of Data
              Visualization.


The user management menu includes password change and logout
              options.
It also provides information on your last login date. The username displayed
              identifies the current user. The user icon can include small, additional icons to show
              if the current user is an admin or an LDAP/SSO user:

Admin user
SSO autheticated user
Admin and SSO autheticated user
Regular user



















Statistics banner



This pane shows the number of QUERIES,
          CONNECTIONS, DATASETS,
          DASHBOARDS, and APPS that you can access in
        your Data Visualization instance. It also shows you the number of TOTAL
          VIEWS. You can click each tile to explore further details. By clicking the
        different tiles you can quickly access recent queries, data connections, and datasets, and
        can also open your their dashboards and applications.
If you click TOTAL VIEWS, you are directed to the Daily
          Usage tab of the Activity Log interface, where you can
        check the list of all activities, users, and dashboards in your Data Visualization instance.
        You can adjust the time interval you want to review (the default is 30 days), and you can
        download the data in CSV format.

Preview area



The preview area provides quick access to the following items:
Recent queries
Recent connections
Recent datasets
Favorites
Items you last viewed 
Items you recently created
Overall most popular items
Sample dashboards

You can click any of the tiles to explore the selected connection, dataset, visual, or
        dashboard.
The preview on connections displays tiles for the connections you recently worked with. The
        icons in the top-right corner of the tiles provide shortcuts to the Add
          Data modal and the New Dataset modal giving you an easy
        option to add data to a data connection or create datasets directly from the homepage.


The preview on datasets displays tiles for the datasets you recently worked with. The icon
        in the top-right corner of the tiles provides a shortcut to creating a new dashboard on the
        selected dataset.


For instructions on how to add a dashboard to your favorites, see Adding a dashboard
          to favorites. Alternatively, you can access your bookmarked dashboards by clicking
          VISUALS on the main navigation bar and then clicking My
          Favorites in the side menu bar.

Homepage side menu bar




The NEW SQL button takes you to the Data
            Connection interface, where you can compose a SQL query.
The NEW DASHBOARD button takes you to the
            Dashboard Designer interface, where you can create new dashboards
          and visuals.
The NEW APP button takes you to the App
            Designer interface, where you can build and style custom BI applications
          from existing dashboards and visuals.
Over the last 7 days... includes statistics on how many
          dashboards, apps, and datasets have been created.
In the LEARN section, you can find the following information:
The Get Started link points to help content embedded in the
              tool.
The What's New in link opens a modal window showcasing new
              features.
The Documentation link opens this library.




Related informationVisuals interfaceData interfaceParent topic: Data Visualization user interface