Setting up ODBC connection from a BI toolCloudera Docs
Setting up ODBC connection from a BI tool
Describes how to connect to Impala Virtual Warehouses using ODBC with your BI tool,
        with Tableau as an example. 

Before you can use Tableau with Impala Virtual Warehouses, you must have created a
                Database Catalog that is populated with data. You have the option to populate your
                Database Catalog with sample data when you create it. You must also create an Impala
                Virtual Warehouse, which is configured to connect to the Database Catalog that is
                populated with data.


Download the latest version of the Impala ODBC driver from Cloudera Downloads page or
                    alternatively, on the Virtual Warehouses page, click the options menu for the
                    warehouse you want to connect to your BI tool, and select Download
                        JDBC/ODBC Driver and install it.

Install the driver on the local host where you intend to use Tableau Desktop.

Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse service.

In the Data Warehouse service, click Virtual Warehouse in
                    the left navigation panel.

On the Virtual Warehouses page, click the more options menu for the Impala
                    warehouse you want to connect to with Tableau, and select Copy JDBC
                        URL:

This copies the JDBC URL to your system clipboard.


Paste the copied JDBC URL into a text file. It should look similar to the
                    following:

jdbc:hive2://<your-virtual-warehouse>.<your-environment>.<dwx.company.com>/default;transportMode=http;httpPath=cliservice;ssl=true;retries=3


From the text file where you just pasted the URL, copy the host name from the
                    JDBC URL to your system clipboard. For example, in the URL shown in Step 6, the
                    host name is:

<your-virtual-warehouse>.<your-environment>.<dwx.company.com>


Start Tableau and navigate to Connect > More… > Cloudera
                        Hadoop:


This launches the Cloudera Hadoop dialog box.


In the Tableau Cloudera Hadoop dialog box, paste the host name you copied to your
                    clipboard in Step 7 into the Server field:




Then in the Tableau Cloudera Hadoop dialog box, set the following
                    options:


Port: 443
Type: HiveServer2
Authentication: Username and
                                Password
Transport: HTTP
Username: Username  to connect to the CDP Data
                            Warehouse service.
Password: Password  to connect to the CDP Data
                            Warehouse service.
HTTP Path: cliservice
Require SSL: Make sure this is selected.



Click Sign In.


Parent topic: Reference information