Monitoring Kafka activity in Streams Messaging ManagerCloudera Docs
Monitoring Kafka activity in Streams Messaging Manager
You can use Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) to monitor Kafka activity. To do this,
        you run two SSH sessions, one for producing data to a Kafka topic and the other to consume
        the data from the Kafka topic. Then you go to the SMM UI from the Management Console to
        track the producer and consumer activity.

Now that you know how to configure a Kafka client to connect to the Kafka cluster in
                CDP, generate some activity and monitor it using SMM. To do this, you collect
                machine usage data from the broker host using the vmstat command
                and stream that data into the machine-data topic.
For  detailed and comprehensive information about SMM, see Streams Messaging
                    Manager.


Start by opening two SSH connections to the same broker host.

On the first session, run the following command.

BROKER_HOST=$(hostname -f)

vmstat 1 1000 | kafka-console-producer \
  --broker-list $BROKER_HOST:9093 \
  --producer.config client-ldap.properties \
  --topic machine-data
This command runs vmstat and sends each line from its output
                        as one message every second to the machine-data topic.
This example assumes that you are using LDAP
                        authentication but you can use the authentication method of your preference.
Leave the session running.


On the second SSH session, run the following command to consume the data:

BROKER_HOST=$(hostname -f)

kafka-console-consumer \
  --bootstrap-server $BROKER_HOST:9093 \
  --consumer.config client-ldap.properties \
  --topic machine-data \
  --group machine-data-$RANDOM \
  --from-beginning
You see the data produced by the first session continuously appear on the
                        screen as output.
Leave the second session also running.


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where your Kafka cluster is
                    running.

On the Data Hubs tab of your environment, select the
                    Kafka cluster you created.

Click Streams Messaging Manager on the services pane to
                    open the SMM web UI.
It may take a few minutes for the consumer or producer activity to start
                    showing in the SMM UI. You may have to refresh your page a few times until the
                    data starts to appear.
Once it does, you see one active producer on the left-hand side of the page
                    and at least one active consumer listed on the right-hand side of the page.



noteSMM shows consumers and producers with some activity in the last few
                        minutes, as active. Because of this, you may see those producers and
                        consumers that finished recently, as active.

You also see the LAG metrics listed besides each consumer. This metric
                    indicates the number of messages the consumer is behind the latest message
                    produced to the Kafka topic. You can use this to quickly identify slow consumers
                    that are lagging behind producers.

Click either on the producer or on the consumer, and SMM shows their activity,
                    highlighting all the topics and partitions they are writing to or reading from,
                    respectively.




In this page you can identify metrics for the overall Kafka topic activity
                        and partition-level. The In Sync Replica (ISR) set for each partition can be
                        identified on the screen. The ID of the LEADER replica for each partition is
                        shown on the left-hand side, while the FOLLOWER replicas are represented as
                        teal-colored boxes on the right-hand side.


Click on an empty part of the page to clear the consumer or producer selection,
                    and then click the profile icon  for the machine-data topic.
This opens the Kafka topic details page where you can find all the
                    topic-related metrics and utilization charts.






Click the DATA EXPLORER tab.
In the Data Explorer page you can sample the data that
                    is flowing through the Kafka topic. Select different partitions and adjust the
                    offset sliders to become familiar with those controls.







Related informationStreams Messaging Manager