Reconfiguring the Kafka consumerCloudera Docs
Reconfiguring the Kafka consumer
After you update a schema stored in the Schema Registry, you must reconfigure the
        consumer to use the new schema.

Because the latest schema version is backward compatible, it can be used to
                deserialize messages produced with the older versions of the schema. Hence, if you
                first reconfigure the consumer to use the new version of the schema, it can continue
                handling messages serialized with the old schema. Furthermore, it  can also  handle
                the new message format as soon as the producer starts sending them. By reconfiguring
                the consumers first, you avoid incompatibility between producers and consumers.
Perform the following steps to get the consumer to use the new schema:


Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where your Kafka cluster is
                    running.

On the Data Hubs tab of your environment, select the
                    Kafka cluster you created.

Click Schema Registry on the Services pane to open the
                    Schema Registry web UI.

Click on the machine-data-avro schema to expand it, and then
                    click the pencil icon to edit the schema.

In the DESCRIPTION field enter a description for this
                    modification: Add os_type field.

In the SCHEMA TEXT field, click
                        CLEAR.
This displays the BROWSE button.

Click BROWSE and select the schema definition file for
                    the new version of the schema, located at
                        cdp-examples/kafka-client-avro/src/main/avro/MachineData.v2.avsc,
                    and then click SAVE.
Schema Registry performs compatibility validations on the new schema and if
                    the outcome is positive, it saves the schema and displays a success message:
                        Schema validated successfully.
You can view both versions of the schema in Schema Registry.






Now that you have the new version of the schema stored in Schema Registry,
                        you need to reconfigure the consumer to use it.


If the consumer application is still running, stop it.

Edit the consumer.properties file, uncomment the following
                    line and ensure it refers to the correct version number for the schema, as shown
                    in the previous screenshot.

schemaregistry.reader.schema.versions={"machine-data-avro": 2}
This property is a JSON representation of a Map, associating
                        a topic name to the version of the schema that the consumer should use.


Start the consumer on one terminal window with the same command used
                    earlier:

java \
  -cp ./target/kafka-client-avro-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar \
  com.cloudera.examples.MachineDataConsumer \
  ./consumer.properties

The consumer displays messages which includes the new field, as shown in the
                    following example:

... INFO  c.c.examples.MachineDataConsumer - Received message: (null, {..., "os_type": "UNKNOWN", ...}) at partition ...

noteThe value shown for the field is UNKNOWN. This is
                            because the producer is unaware of the new schema and is not producing
                            messages with that field. When the consumer deserializes the message, it
                            uses the default value defined in the schema.




Parent topic: Evolve your schema