Checking schema registrationCloudera Docs
Checking schema registration
When the KafkaAvroSerializer is used to produce data to a Kafka
        topic, the serializer first checks with the configured Schema Registry service to ensure
        that the schema is compatible with the one registered for that Kafka topic. You can view the
        registered schema and its the versions in the Schema Registry web UI.

If the Kafka topic does not have the schema registered yet, the serializer registers
                the schema on behalf of the client, provided it has permissions to do so. If there
                is a schema registered for the Kafka topic, the serializer checks if the schema
                being used by the client is either the same or a compatible version of that
                schema.
If the schema is the same, the producer uses it for producing messages. If the schema
                is a new version of the currently registered schema that is compatible with the
                previous versions, the serializer registers it with a new version number and then
                uses it for producing messages. If the schema being used by the client is not
                compatible with the currently registered schema, the serializer issues an exception.
In this example, because this is the first time that you used that topic, there was
                previously no schema registered for it. If everything works as expected, the schema
                defined in the MachineData.v1.avsc file is successfully registered
                in Schema Registry.

You must have produced data in Avro format.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where your Kafka cluster is
                    running.

On the Data Hubs tab of your environment, select the
                    Kafka cluster you created.

Click Schema Registry on the Services pane to open the
                    Schema Registry web UI.
One schema registered with the name of the topic being used is
                    displayed.

Click on the machine-data-avro schema to expand:




In this page, you can view all the versions of the schema. You only see
                        version v1, which is the version just registered by the
                        producer’s KafkaAvroSerializer.



Parent topic: Use Schema Registry