Use Kerberos authenticationCloudera Docs
Use Kerberos authentication
Learn how and when to configure Kerberos authentication.
 LDAP authentication is generally easier to configure for remote clients, because it does not
            require Kerberos libraries or clients to be installed and the remote clients do not need
            direct connectivity to your Kerberos or LDAP server.
In some situations, though, Kerberos authentication may be required and/or preferred. In this
            section, you run the same kafka-console-consumer command you used for
            LDAP authentication, but this time using Kerberos authentication to demonstrate the
            required configuration.
When using Kerberos, you can use two different sources for the authentication credentials: a
                ticket cache or a keytab. The ticket cache is the
            place where the Kerberos ticket for a user is stored after the user authenticates
            successfully. You can use the ticket cache when the user has been already authenticated
            using a username and password. The keytab is a special and sensitive file that contains
            the user credentials. Keytabs do not require that the user authenticates previously.
In this example, you create a new configuration file called
                client-kerberos.properties, which is similar to the
                client-ldap.properties file that you used in the previous example
            but with Kerberos-specific parameters. You also need an additional configuration file,
            which you call either jaas-cache.conf or
                jaas-keytab.conf, depending on the credentials source you use. This
            JAAS configuration file is used to communicate the authentication credentials source
            (ticket cache or keytab) to the Kafka client.
For more details on how to enable Kerberos authentication for Kafka, see Enable Kerberos
        authentication for Kafka clients.

Related informationEnable Kerberos authenticationKerberos authentication using the ticket cacheYou can configure Kerberos authentication using a ticket cache. To do so, you         authenticate with Kerberos to acquire a valid Kerberos ticket. Then you connect to Kafka         authenticating with the Kerberos ticket.Kerberos authentication using a keytabYou can configure Kerberos authentication using a keytab. To do so, you download the         keytab from the environment where your Kafka cluster is running, copy the keytab to your         broker host, create a configuration file with required properties, and connect to         Kafka.