Checking producer activityCloudera Docs
Checking producer activity
You can also use Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) to check the activity generated by
        the producer on the Kafka cluster. Learn how to check the producer activity in SMM after you
        send data to a Kafka topic in Avro format.
You must have sent data to a Kafka topic in Avro format and
            checked the schema registration.

Navigate to Management Console > Environments, and select the environment where your Kafka cluster is
                    running.

On the Data Hubs tab of your environment, select the
                    Kafka cluster you created.

Click Streams Messaging Manager on the
                        Services pane to open the SMM web UI.

On the SMM UI, click the Overview tab ().

Click the Topics dynamic filter, type
                        machine in the Search field, and
                    select the checkbox next to the Name header to include all the
                    filtered topics.
You should be able to see the machine-data-avro topic and
                    verify that it has some inbound activity (DATA IN > 0).

The producer.properties file sets the producer name with the
                    property client.id=producer-java. Find this producer from the
                    list  and click on it.
All the partitions that are receiving data from the producer is
                    displayed.






Click on an empty part of the page to clear the consumer or producer selection,
                    and then click the profile icon () for the machine-data-avro topic
                    to open the topic page.

Click the DATA EXPLORER tab.
Because the data you are ingesting now is binary data (Avro serialization),
                    you see that the message contents shown by SMM contain a lot of
                        garbage:


SMM integrates with Schema Registry and is able to decode the binary messages
                    using the schema registered previously by the client.

Click the Values drop-down for
                        DESERIALIZER, and select the
                        Avro format.





SMM automatically retrieves the correct schema from the Schema Registry and
                    deserializes the messages shown in SMM, showing them as JSON strings:






Parent topic: Use Schema Registry