Concurrent session verification (Tech Preview)Cloudera Docs
Concurrent session verification (Tech Preview)
This feature is a security measure that enables end-users limiting the number of
  concurrent UI sessions the users can have. To achieve this goal the users can be sorted out into
  three groups: non-privileged, privileged, unlimited.
The non-privileged and privileged groups each have a configurable limit, which the
   members of the group can not exceed. The members of the unlimited group are able to create an
   unlimited number of concurrent sessions.
All of the users, who are not configured in either the privileged or in the unlimited
   group, shall become the member of the non-privileged group by default.

noteConccurent session verification feature is under Technical Preview.
    The technical preview feature and considered under development. Do not use this in your
    production systems. To share your feedback, contact Support by logging a case on our Cloudera Support
     Portal. Technical preview features are not guaranteed troubleshooting guidance and
    fixes.

Configuration
The following table shows the relevant gateway-level parameters that are essential for this
   feature to work:


Parameter
Description
Default


gateway.service.concurrentsessionverifier.impl
To enable the session verification feature, end-users should set this
       parameter to
        org.apache.knox.gateway.session.control.InMemoryConcurrentSessionVerifier
org.apache.knox.gateway.session.control.EmptyConcurrentSessionVerifier


gateway.session.verification.privileged.users
Indicates a list of users that are qualified privileged.
Empty list


gateway.session.verification.unlimited.users
Indicates a list of (super) users that can have as many UI sessions as they
       want.
Empty list


gateway.session.verification.privileged.user.limit
The number of UI sessions a privileged user can have
3


gateway.session.verification.non.privileged.user.limit
The number of UI sessions a non-privileged user can have
2


How this works
If the verifier is disabled it will not do anything even if the other parameters are
   configured.
When the verifier is enabled all of the users are considered as a non-privileged user
   by default and they will not be able to create more concurrent sessions than the non-privileged
   limit. The same is true after you added someone in the privileged user group: that user will not
   be able to create more UI sessions than the configured privileged user limit. Whereas the members
   of the unlimited users group are able to create an unlimited number of concurrent sessions even
   if they are configured in the privileged group as well.
In Cloudera Data Platform, currently, there are no first-class Cloudera Manager
   parameters for this feature, so all of those properties have to be set through Knox Service
    Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for conf/gateway-site.xml configuration in
   Cloudera Manager.




