CDE conceptsCloudera Docs
CDE concepts
Learn about some basic concepts behind Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) service to better
  understand how you can use the command line interface (CLI).
CDE has three main concepts:

job
A 'job' is a definition of something that CDE can run. For example, the information required
     to run a jar file on Spark with specific configurations.
job run
A 'job run' is an execution of a job. For example, one run of a Spark job on a CDE
     cluster.
resource
A 'resource' refers to a job dependency that must be available to jobs
          at runtime. Currently the following resource types are supported:
files is a directory of files that you can
              upload to CDE pods into a standard location
                (/app/mount). This is typically for application
              (for example, .jar or .py files)
              and reference files, and not the data that the job run will
              operate on. Multiple files resources can be referenced in a single
              job.
python-env is used to provide custom Python
              dependencies to the job as a Python virtual environment which is
              automatically configured. Up to one python-env
              resource can be specified per job definition.
custom-runtime-image
              is a custom Docker container imagenoteCustom Docker container images is a Technical
                  Preview feature. Contact your Cloudera account
                representative to enable access to this feature.


In addition, to support jobs with custom requirements, CDE also allows users to manage
   credentials which can be used at job run time. Currently, only custom Docker registry credentials
   are supported.
Submitting versus running a job
The cde spark submit and cde airflow submit commands
    automatically create a new job and a new resource, submit the job as a job run, and when the job
    run terminates they delete the job and resources. 
A cde job run requires a job and all necessary resources to be created and
    uploaded to the CDE cluster beforehand. The advantage of creating resources and jobs ahead of
    time is that resources can be reused across jobs, and that jobs can be run using only a job
    name.


