Managing Cloudera Data Engineering job resources using the CLICloudera Docs
Managing Cloudera Data Engineering job resources using the CLI
A resource in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) is a
    named collection of files or other resources referenced by a job. The files
    can include application code, configuration files, or any other arbitrary
    files required by a job. A resource can also be a Python virtual
    environment, or a custom Docker container image.
noteCustom Docker container images is a Technical Preview feature. Contact your
      Cloudera account representative to enable access to this feature.
You can think of resources as any supporting files, libraries, or images
      that a CDE job requires to run. Resources can be created and deleted, and
      files can be added to and deleted from a resource as needed.
A resource can also be a Python virtual environment specification (as a
        requirements.txt file), or a custom Docker container
      image.
Before continuing, make sure that you have downloaded and configured the CLI client.

Creating a Cloudera Data Engineering resource using the CLIA resource in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) is a named collection of     files or other assets referenced by a job, including application code, configuration files, or     any other arbitrary files required by a job. A resource can also be a Python virtual     environment, or a custom Docker container image.Uploading files or other assets to a Cloudera Data Engineering resource using the CLIA resource in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) is a named collection of         files or other assets referenced by a job, including application code, configuration files,         or any other arbitrary files required by a job. A resource can also be a Python virtual         environment, or a custom Docker container image.Deleting a Cloudera Data Engineering resource using the CLIA resource in Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) is a     named collection of files or other resources referenced by a job, including     application code, configuration files, or any other arbitrary files required     by a job. A resource can also be a Python virtual environment, or a custom     Docker container image. Resources can be deleted using the CLI.Creating and updating Docker credentialsTo allow the use of private Docker registries, Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) supports   the creation and management of credentials. These are stored securely in the Kubernetes cluster as   secrets and cannot be accessed by end users directly. Credentials are attached to job runs   automatically by the CDE backend.Deleting Docker credentialsTo allow the use of private Docker registries, Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE)         supports the creation and management of credentials. These are stored securely in the         Kubernetes cluster as secrets and cannot be accessed by end users directly. Credentials are         attached to job runs automatically by the CDE backend.Deleting an Airflow DAGYou can delete unused Airflow DAGs using the Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) command         line interface (CLI).