Erasure Coding overviewCloudera Docs
Erasure Coding overview
The Ozone Erasure Coding feature provides data durability and fault-tolerance along
    with reduced storage space and ensures data durability similar to Ratis THREE replication
    approach.
The Ozone default replication scheme Ratis THREE has 200% overhead storage space including
      other resources. Using EC in place of replication helps in reducing storage cost as the
      overhead storage space is only 50%. For example, if you replicate 6 blocks of data, you need
      18 blocks of disk space in Ratis. However, if you use EC with Ozone, you need 6 blocks plus 3
      parity totalling to 9 blocks of disk space.
Write and read using EC
When a client requests write, OM allocates a block group (data and parity) number of nodes
        from the pipeline to the client. Client writes d number of chunks to d number of nodes.
        Parity chunks(p) are created and transferred to the remaining p number of nodes. After this
        process is completed, the client can request for a new block group after the writing of the
        current block group is finished. 
For reads, OM provides the node location information. If the key is erasure coded, the
        client reads the data in the EC way.note

Cloudera recommends you to use the Erasure Coding feature at the bucket level so
              that EC is applied on all the keys created in a bucket. However, you can configure EC
              at key level as well. 
If you do not want EC to be configured for specific keys, you can explicitly specify
              the replication configuration for those keys. 
If replication configuration is not defined specifically for both buckets and keys,
              then cluster-wide or global default configuration is applied. 




Enabling EC replication configuration cluster-wideYou can set cluster-wide default Replication configuration with EC by using the         configuration keys ozone.server.default.replication.type and             ozone.server.default.replication.Enabling EC replication configuration on bucketYou can enable EC replication configuration at bucket level.Enabling EC replication configuration on keys or filesYou can enable EC configuration replication at key level.