Configuring a resource-based policy using RangerCloudera Docs
Configuring a resource-based policy using Ranger
Using Ranger, you can setup new Ozone policies that will help you to set right access
        permissions to various Ozone objects like volumes and buckets.
Through configuration, Apache Ranger enables both Ranger policies and Ozone
            permissions to be checked for a user request. When the Ozone Manager receives a user
            request, the Ranger plugin checks for policies set through the Ranger Service Manager.
            If there are no policies, the Ranger plugin checks for permissions set in
                Ozone.Cloudera recommends you to create permissions at the Ranger Service
                Manager, and to have restrictive permissions at the Ozone level.

On the Service Manager page, select an existing Ozone
                    service. The List of Policies page appears.

Click Add New Policy. The Create
                        Policy page appears.






Complete the Create Policy page as follows:
FieldDescription
Policy Name

Enter a unique name for this policy. The name cannot be duplicated
                                anywhere in the system.



Normal or Override 


Enables you to specify an override policy. When override is selected,
                                the access permissions in the policy override the access permissions
                                in existing policies. This feature can be used with Add
                                    Validity Period to create temporary access policies
                                that override existing policies.



Add Validity Period


Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Policy Label
(Optional) Specify a label for this policy. You can search reports
                            and filter policies based on these labels.


Ozone Volume


Specify volumes that can be accessed. Ensure that the Ozone
                                volume key is set to Include.
If you want to deny access at the volume level, then disable this
                                option by turning off using the Ozone Volume key to
                                    Exclude.


Bucket

Specify buckets that can be accessed. Ensure that the Ozone
                                Bucket key is set to Include.
If you want to deny access at the bucket level, then disable this
                                option by turning off using the bucket key. Or, select
                                    None from the Bucket drop-down.


Key

Provide the Key


Recursive or Non Recursive

Recursive or Non recursive function


Description

(Optional) Describe the purpose of the policy.


Audit Logging

Specify whether this policy is audited. To disable auditing, turn off
                                the Audit Logging key.



Allow Conditions
LabelDescription

Select Role


Specify the roles to which this policy applies.
To designate a role as an Administrator, select the
                                Delegate Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                policy.


Select Group

Specify the groups to which this policy applies.
To designate a group as an Administrator, select the
                                Delegate Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                policy.
The public group contains all users, so granting access to
                                the public group grants access to all users.


Select User

Specify the users to which this policy applies.
To designate a user as an Administrator, select the
                                Delegate Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                policy.


Policy Conditions

Provide the IP address range


Permissions

Add or edit permissions: All, Read, Write,, Create, List, Delete,
                                Read_ACL, Write_ACL, Select/Deselect All.


Delegate Admin

You can use Delegate Admin to assign administrator privileges to the
                                roles, groups, or users specified in the policy. Administrators can
                                edit or delete the policy, and can also create child policies based
                                on the original policy.


noteYou can use the Plus (+) symbol to add additional conditions.
                        Conditions are evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The condition at
                        the top of the list is applied first, then the second, then the third, and
                        so on. Similarly, you can also exclude certain Allow
                            Conditions by adding them to the Exclude from
                            Allow Conditions list.

You can use the Deny All Other Accesses toggle key to
                    deny access to all other users, groups, and roles other than those specified in
                    the allow conditions for the policy.

If you wish to deny access to a few or specific users, groups, or roles, then
                    use must set Deny Conditions.
You can use the Plus (+) symbol to add deny conditions.
                    Conditions are evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The condition at the
                    top of the list is applied first, then the second, then the third, and so on.
                    Similarly, you can also exclude certain Deny Conditions
                    by adding them to the Exclude from Deny Conditions
                    list.

Click Add.


Parent topic: Ozone Ranger Integration