Considerations for configuring High Availability on Storage Container ManagerCloudera Docs
Considerations for configuring High Availability on Storage Container Manager
Similar to configuring High Availability (HA) for the Ozone Manager (OM), there are
        various factors that you must consider when configuring HA for  the Storage Container
        Manager (SCM). 


SCM HA is supported only on new CDP cluster deployments starting with CDP
                        7.1.7. You can configure SCM HA when adding Ozone as a service
                    through Cloudera Manager.noteFor information about adding and deleting
                        services using Cloudera Manager, see the following: 
Adding a service
Deleting services

To configure SCM HA, you require at least three nodes as SCM hosts so that one
                    SCM node is the leader and the remaining nodes are the followers. The SCM nodes
                    automatically elect a leader.noteThe ozone admin scm roles
                        command lists the leader and follower SCM nodes in an Ozone
                    cluster.
A primordial SCM node generates the cluster ID and distributes it across Ozone
                    Manager and DataNodes in an Ozone cluster. A primordial SCM must be running for
                    other SCMs in SCM HA setup to bootstrap initially. If there is an existing SCM
                    instance running and you want to add a new SCM instance, the primordial node
                    configuration needs to be the existing SCM instance only. noteIf the
                        primordial SCM is not chosen correctly, the Ozone cluster can encounter
                        issues from OMs and DNs can crash into SCMs.
You must specify one of the three SCM host names as the primordial node using
                    the ozone.scm.primordial.node.id property. In addition,
                    you must specify the SCM service ID using the
                        ozone.scm.service.id property.
If a primordial SCM node is inaccessible, new SCM nodes cannot join
                    an HA configuration.note

You can now configure Ozone Service ID through the Cloudera Manager
                                setup wizard. However, you must not change the Ozone Service ID
                                after the setup is complete. If you change the Ozone Service ID,
                                Ozone Manager fails to start up.
You can also configure primordial ID in Cloudera Manager while
                                setting up Ozone as a service.
Currently, Cloudera Manager does not have an option to disable
                                parameters that can be configured after the setup.


After you have configured the HA cluster, ensure that you do not
                        change the SCM Ratis port number (9894).noteFor information about
                        the various Ozone ports, see Ports Used by Cloudera Runtime
                            Components.



Parent topic: Overview of Storage Container Manager in High Availability