Overview pageCloudera Docs
Overview page
The Overview page displays information about different elements on the Ozone cluster
        in the form of a consolidated dashboard. This page loads by default when you launch the
        Recon web user interface. 

noteRecon interacts with the Storage Container Manager (SCM), the DataNodes, and the
                Ozone Manager (OM) at specific intervals to update its databases and reflect the
                state of the Ozone cluster, and then populates the Overview page. Therefore, the
                information displayed on the Overview page might occasionally not be in
                synchronization with the current state of the Ozone cluster because of a time lag.
                However, Recon ensures that the information is eventually consistent with that of
                the cluster. 



Recon displays the following information from the SCM and the DataNodes on the
                Overview page in the form of cards:
Health of the DataNodes in the cluster. Clicking this card loads the
                        DataNodes page.
Number of pipelines involved in data replication. Clicking this card loads
                        the Pipelines page. 
Capacity of the cluster. The capacity includes the amount of storage used by
                        Ozone, by services other than Ozone, and any remaining storage capacity of
                        the cluster. 
Number of storage containers in the SCM. If there are any missing containers
                        reported, the Containers card is highlighted with a red border. You can then
                        click the card to view more information about the missing containers on a
                        separate page. 

Recon displays following information from the Ozone Manager (OM) on the
                Overview page:
Number of volumes in the cluster 
Total number of buckets for all the volumes in the cluster
Total number of keys for all the buckets in the cluster 



Parent topic: Elements of the Recon web user interface