Load balancer in front of Schema Registry instancesCloudera Docs
Load balancer in front of Schema Registry instances
It is common to have multiple instances of the same application, for example Schema
      Registry, and have a load balancer in front of them. This can be useful for failover reasons
      in HA environments, and it can also help sharing the load between instances.
A load balancer can be any application (HAProxy, NGINX, and so on) that listens on a specific
         port and forwards requests (create schema, get schema, and so on) to Schema Registry
            instances.


A load balancer not only balances requests using round robin method, but also tracks
         application instances whether they are usable or not. Having a load balancer minimizes the
         need to change client-side properties with instance hostnames, because the only host that
         the client needs to know is the load balancer host. In case the environment is completely
         insecure, you do not need to perform any additional steps. But in case of SSL or Kerberos
         is enabled, some defending mechanisms (for example, hostname verification) can cause
         issues, which requires additional setup to make the load balancing work.noteCloudera recommends using Knox as load balancer in Public Cloud.
            It performs round robin method to load balance between multiple Schema Registry
            instances. Knox can be used differently than what is documented here, because it can
            handle authentication, so requests are not forwarded as is. In case Knox is used as load
            balancer, the setup mentioned in this document is not needed.

Configurations required to use load balancer with Kerberos enabledLearn how to use load balancer in front of Schema Registry instances in an environment   where Kerberos is enabled.Configurations required to use load balancer with SSL enabledLearn how to use a load balancer in front of Schema Registry instances in an environment     where SSL is enabled.