Connecting to Hive Virtual Warehouses from TableauCloudera Docs
Connecting to Hive Virtual Warehouses from Tableau
This topic describes how to connect to Tableau with Hive Virtual Warehouses on Cloudera Data
      Warehouse (CDW) service.
    

Required role: DWUser


Before you can use Tableau with Hive Virtual Warehouses, you must have created a
              Database Catalog that is populated with data. You have the option to populate your
              Database Catalog with sample data when you create it. You must also create a Hive
              Virtual Warehouse, which is configured to connect to the Database Catalog that is
              populated with data.


Download the latest version of the Hive ODBC driver from Cloudera Downloads page.

Install the driver on the local host where you intend to use Tableau Desktop.

Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse service.

In the Data Warehouse service, click Virtual Warehouse in
              the left navigation panel.

On the Virtual Warehouses page, in the upper right corner of the tile for the Hive
          Virtual Warehouse you want to connect to, click the options menu, and
          select Copy JDBC URL. This copies the JDBC URL to your system's clipboard.

Paste the copied JDBC URL into a text file. It should look similar to the
              following:

jdbc:hive2://<your-virtual-warehouse>.<your-environment>.<dwx.company.com>/default;transportMode=http;httpPath=cliservice;ssl=true;retries=3


From the text file where you just pasted the URL, copy the host name from the JDBC
              URL to your system's clipboard. For example, in the URL shown in Step 6, the host name
            is:

<your-virtual-warehouse>.<your-environment>.<dwx.company.com>


Start Tableau and navigate to Connect > More… > Cloudera
                Hadoop:




This launches the Cloudera Hadoop dialog box.


In the Tableau Cloudera Hadoop dialog box, paste the host name you copied to your
              clipboard in Step 7 into the Server field:






Then in the Tableau Cloudera Hadoop dialog box, set the following other options:


Port: 443
Type: HiveServer2
Authentication: Username and Password
Transport: HTTP
Username: Username you use to connect to the CDP Data
                  Warehouse service.
Password: Password you use to connect to the CDP Data
                  Warehouse service.
HTTP Path: cliservice
Require SSL: Make sure this is checked.



Click Sign In.


Related informationCloudera Hadoop connection option described in           the Tableau documentation