Download and Configure cdswctlCloudera Docs
Download and Configure cdswctl
This topic describes how to download the cdswctl
    CLI client and configure your SSH public key to authenticate CLI access to
    sessions. 

Before you begin, ensure that the following prerequisites are met:
You have an SSH public/private key pair for your local
            machine.
You have Contributor permissions for an existing project.
            Alternatively, create a new project you have access to.
If you want to configure a third-party editor, make sure the Site
            Administrator has not disabled remote editing for Cloudera Machine Learning.



Parent topic: cdswctl Command Line Interface Client
(Optional) Generate an SSH Public/Private Key

This task is optional. If you already
        have an SSH public/private key pair, skip this task. The steps to create
        an SSH public/private key pair differ based on your operating system.
        The following instructions are meant to be an example and are written
        for macOS using ssh-keygen. 
Open Terminal.Run the following command and complete the fields: 
ssh-keygen -t rsa -f ~/.ssh/id_rsa
Keep the following guidelines in mind:
Make sure that the SSH key you generate meets the requirements
                for the local IDE you want to use. For example, PyCharm requires
                the -m PEM option because PyCharm does not
                support modern (RFC 4716) OpenSSH keys.
Provide a passphrase when you generate the key pair. Use this
                passphrase when prompted for the SSH key passphrase.
Save the SSH key to the default ~/.ssh
                location.




Download cdswctl and Add an SSH Key

Open the Cloudera Machine Learning web UI and go to
                Settings > Remote
                Editing for your user
          account.Download cdswctl client for your operating
            system.
Unpack it, and optionally, you can add it to the PATH environment
            variable on your system.Add your SSH public key to SSH public keys for
              session access.Cloudera Machine Learning uses the SSH public key to authenticate
            your CLI client session, including the SSH endpoint connection to
            the Cloudera Machine Learning deployment.Any SSH endpoints
              that are running when you add an SSH public key must also be
              restarted.


