Securing Streams Messaging ManagerCloudera Docs
Securing Streams Messaging Manager
As a cluster administrator, you can combine Kerberos authentication and Ranger
        authorization to secure the Streams Messaging Manager (SMM) web user interface (UI). After
        you secure the SMM web UI, the login page appears, which does not appear by
        default.

If you deploy SMM without security, the login page is not enabled on the SMM UI by
                default. When you enable Kerberos authentication, SMM uses SPNEGO to authenticate
                users and allows them to view or create topics within Kafka by administering Ranger
                Kafka Policies. For information on enabling browsers to use SPNEGO, see How to Configure Browsers for Kerberos
                    Authentication.
After you secure SMM, anyone within the organization can login to SMM. However, if
                they do not have the correct policy configuration in Ranger, then they may not have
                the necessary privileges to perform their required tasks through SMM.




Configure Kafka in RangerFor more information, see Configure a
                                resource-based service: Kafka.
Enable Kerberos authentication for KafkaFor more information, see
                                Enable Kerberos authentication.
Add and configure SMMFor more information, see Creating your first
                                Streams Messaging cluster.



noteFor the Kafka Client security protocol, it is possible to use INFERRED,
                    SASL_PLAINTEXT, and SASL_SSL for securing SMM. However, Cloudera recommends
                    using SASL_SSL.



Go to Cloudera Manager > SMM, and click Configuration.

Enable Ranger for SMM.






Go to the Ranger service UI and configure the Kafka policies.

noteReview your Ranger Kafka Policies. Remember to log in to Ranger with a
                        user that has the Ranger Admin role.


Click cm_kafka in the Ranger service UI.






The List of Policies page appears.


Click Add New Policy.






The Policy Details page appears.







Add a policy name and select cluster from the
                    dropdown.






Type * in the field beside cluster, and select the
                        * from the values that appear.

Go to the Allow Condition section and select the
                    user.

Add permissions by clicking the + under Add
                        Permissions.






Select Create and Describe
                    permissions.

Click Add. 


Related informationConfigure a resource-based service: KafkaEnable Kerberos AuthenticationSetting up your Streams Messaging cluster