Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 Cumulative hotfix 4Cloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 Cumulative hotfix 4
Know more about the Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 cumulative hotfixes 4.
This cumulative hotfix was released on February 23, 2023.

noteContact Cloudera Support for questions related to any specific
        hotfixes.

Following are the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)'s that are fixed in the Cloudera
      Manager 7.7.1 CHF4 (version: 7.7.1-38008529) release:
CVE-2022-41966

Following known issues and their corresponding workarounds are shipped for Cloudera Manager
      7.7.1 CHF4 (version: 7.7.1-38008529):



CDPD-49716
Unable to access the Hue UI on a Knox-enabled
                cluster.
Before you access the Hue UI on a Knox-enabled
                cluster, ensure that you add the hostname of the Knox Gateway and Hue Load Balancer
                hostname in the trusted origin and as a Knox Proxy host. For more information, see
                  Integrate with Knox.




Following are the list of fixed issues that were shipped for Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 CHF4
      (version: 7.7.1-38008529)



OPSAPS-66197
Snapshot diff-based (incremental) HDFS to HDFS
                replication might corrupt destination directory structure when:
there is a source side HDFS move/rename operation.
the (move/rename) target on the replication destination is an existing
                    unexpected directory.
OPSAPS-63724 introduced an optional workaround where the target-side
                  directory creations are ignored. When a colliding source-side move is expected
                  both workarounds are recommended to be activated.
Workaround:
Set the HDFS service core-site.xml advanced configuration snippet (also called
                    safety valve) (on the destination side)
                    "com.cloudera.enterprise.distcp.overwrite-merge-existing-rename-targets.enabled"
                    to "true". (Note that enabling the workaround in OPSAPS-63724 uses a different
                    advanced configuration snippet).
In an incremental replication run, check the stderr log of the last "Trigger a
                    HDFS replication job on one of the available HDFS roles." step and make sure
                    that the INFO distcp.DistCpSync: Overwrite merge of already existing
                      move targets is enabled message is displayed. 

Usage notes:
When there is a conflicting replicated source side move/rename operation where
                    - on the destination side - the target exists, there will be a merge
                    attempt:
When the source side moved path is a directory and the conflicting destination
                    side path is also a directory their contents will be merged.
When the destination side conflicting path is a file it will be overwritten by
                    the replicated move.
When the source side moved path is a file the destination side conflicting
                    path will be overwritten by the replicated move.
In case of other failures replication is expected to fall back to bootstrap
                    (full file listing) run.
Details of merge activity (when there is a conflicting path) is logged in
                  the same stderr log with messages containing INFO
                    distcp.DistCpSync$OverwriteMergeRenameBehavior.






OPSAPS-66160: Upgraded XStream
                version
The XStream version is upgraded to 1.4.20 version to
                fix CVE-2022-41966 issue.






OPSAPS-65958
After a Hive ACID replication policy is deleted, the
                database in the replication policy cannot be deleted from the source cluster. This
                issue is fixed.






OPSAPS-65870: Log4J 1.2.17 replaced with
                Reload4J
In this release, Cloudera has replaced all Apache
                Log4j 1.2.x logging libraries included with Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 Cumulative hotfix
                3 with equivalent Reload4j libraries.






OPSAPS-65733
The following issues are fixed:
Import script incorrectly returns "0" for an unsuccessful import
                    operation.
Dry run import of Ranger policies fails.
Import operation fails because of deadlock.







OPSAPS-64925
You could configure the
                  numListstatusThreads parameter, that specifies the number
                of threads to be used for fetching the file statuses, only through CLI and not
                during the HDFS replication policy creation process. This issue is fixed.
 You can now configure this parameter during HDFS
                replication policy creation using the Advanced > File listing threads field.






OPSAPS-63930
By default, snapshot diff-based (incremental) HDFS -
                HDFS replication uses a temp directory, created in the parent of replication
                destination directory to synchronize source-side rename and delete operations:
                deleted and renamed paths are first moved into this temporary directory, then the
                renamed ones will be moved to their target followed by the deletion of this
                temporary directory (thus deleting the paths scheduled to be deleted). Note that
                OPSAPS-63759 provides an optional behavior to execute individual deletes without
                these moves.This behavior of incremental replication leads to failure and
                  fallback to bootstrap (full file listing) replication when the replication process
                  can not create this temporary directory (due to restrictive HDFS permissions) or
                  when the replication destination contains one or more HDFS encryption zones
                  (because HDFS moves can not cross encryption zone boundary).This optional
                  workaround solves these problems by executing rename operations in-place when
                  possible, otherwise using the best possible temporary rename operations without
                  the need of the above mentioned common temporary directory. Note that this
                  workaround can be considered as a superset of OPSAPS-63759. That is when both are
                  enabled, the current one is applied.
Activating this workaround:
Set HDFS service core-site.xml advanced configuration snippet (on
                    the destination side)
                    "com.cloudera.enterprise.distcp.direct-rename-and-delete.enabled" to
                    "true".
In an incremental replication run, check the stderr log of the last
                    "Trigger a HDFS replication job on one of the available HDFS roles." step, and
                    make sure the INFO distcp.DistCpSync: Will use direct rename and delete
                      (for non cloud target) when using snapshot diff based sync. Temp directory
                      creation on the target will be skipped. message is displayed.

Adjusting delete logging: By default, every 100000 direct
                delete operations executed by this workaround are logged. This is useful for
                following the synchronization of large source side deletes. This default interval
                can be overridden by setting the
                "com.cloudera.enterprise.distcp.direct-delete.log-interval" advanced configuration
                snippet to an integer value greater than 0. Note that this advanced configuration
                snippet is shared with a workaround in OPSAPS-63759.
Usage notes:  There can be conflicting source side renames
                and rename - delete interactions when their destination side replay need to use
                temporary renames (for example, a name swap between two paths using three renames).
                For these cases, the temporary rename destination will typically be next to the
                final rename destination (will share the same parent path) avoiding both above
                mentioned failure scenarios. Such temporary renames will be logged during execution
                  like:distcp.DistCpSync: Executing a temp rename: /test-repl-target/test-repl-source/file2 -> /test-repl-target/test-repl-source/file2748016654After
                  execution, the number of operations will also be logged
                  like:INFO distcp.DistCpSync: Synced 0 through-tmp/cloud rename(s) and 0 through-tmp delete(s) to target.
INFO distcp.DistCpSync: Synced 2 direct delete(s) to target.
INFO distcp.DistCpSync: Synced 2 direct rename(s) to target.
INFO distcp.DistCpSync: Used 2 additional temporary rename(s) during syncing.






OPSAPS-63724
By default, the snapshot diff-based (incremental)
                HDFS - HDFS replication falls back to bootstrap (full file listing / FFL)
                replication when there are unexpected target-side changes. By enabling this
                workaround, certain target-side changes are tolerated by incremental replication
                without falling back to FFL. Note that when source side HDFS moves are expected to
                be synchronized the workaround mentioned in OPSAPS-66197 is recommended to be
                activated.
Activating this workaround:
Set
                    "com.cloudera.enterprise.distcp.check-for-safe-to-merge-target-side-changes.enabled"
                    to "true" in the "YARN Service Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                    core-site.xml" on the destination side, and then restart the stale services /
                    redeploy client configuration. (Note that enabling OPSAPS-66197 uses a different
                    advanced configuration snippet).
In an incremental replication run, check the stderr log of the first "Run
                    Pre-Filelisting Check" and make sure the INFO
                      distcp.PreCopyListingCheck: Check for safe to ignore (merge) target side
                      changes is enabled. message appears.

Usage notes:
When a safe-to-ignore target change is found, "Run Pre-Filelisting Check"
                    prints the following messages to its stderr
                    log:INFO util.DistCpUtils: There are changes on target, falling back to regular distcp
NFO distcp.PreCopyListingCheck: The changes on target are safe to ignore.
INFO distcp.PreCopyListingCheck: Note that it is up to the downstream processing steps if it falls back to full file listing or continue with snapshot diff execution
INFO distcp.PreCopyListingCheck: Changes to target: true
INFO distcp.PreCopyListingCheck: Changes to target are safe to ignore: true

When target changes are not found safe-to-ignore, then the details about the
                    reason appears in the
                    messages:INFO distcp.PreCopyListingCheck: Changes to target: true
INFO distcp.PreCopyListingCheck: Changes to target are safe to ignore: false


Allowed changes:The following destination side
                  changes (snapshot diff entries) are considered safe-to-ignore when this workaround
                  is enabled:
Additions ( + ): only if they are empty directories or contain only
                      directories, all present on the source as directory.
Deletions ( - ): only the source side path also missing.
Modifications (M): must have an immediate, allowed ( + ) or ( - ) child
                      path.







OPSAPS-63571
Sometimes, entries reported by the HDFS snapshot-diff
                report for deleted directories appear as modified. This might raise an
                FileNotFoundException error. In this scenario, you can configure the
                "com.cloudera.enterprise.distcp.hdfs-snapshot-diff-cleanup.enabled" advanced
                configuration snippet to address these unexpected entries.






OPSAPS-63529
The "deleteLatestSourceSnapshotOnJobFailure" HDFS
                policy property could be accessed only using CLI. You can now configure this
                parameter during HDFS replication policy creation using the Advanced > Restart replication using non-incremental (bootstrap) replication on
                    replication failure field.






OPSAPS-63362
Hive ACID replication policies failed if the source
                and target clusters have the same HDFS nameservice. This issue is fixed.






OPSAPS-63031
To provide a custom YARN queue for the Replication
                Metrics Getter command, the administrator can now specify the
                  HIVE_REPL_METRICS_TEZQUEUE_NAME =  [***custom yarn queue
                    name***] key-value pair in the "Hive Replication
                Environment Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve)" for the Hive_on_tez
                  service.On the next run, the replication metrics command uses the
                  custom yarn queue for its execution.






OPSAPS-63030
The “Hive replication metrics getter” process failed
                for some Hive ACID replication policies because the TLS parameters were repeated in
                the JDBC URL. This issue is fixed.






OPSAPS-62612
The fix for this issue ensures that Replication
                Manager shows a warning message if there are any Hive ACID tables in the chosen
                database when you choose an external-tables-only database for a Hive external table
                replication policy.






OPSAPS-62886
When there are a large number of replication
                policies, the Cloudera Manager > Replication Manager  > Replication Policies page takes a long time to load. This issue is fixed.






OPSAPS-63262
The “Hive on Tez Replication Metrics Getter” commands
                failed when there were long messages in the replication_metrics table. This issue is
                fixed.






OPSAPS-65419: Hosts page takes too long to
                load on large clusters

The All Hosts page sometimes takes more than 10 seconds
                  and is very slow when Cloudera Manager manages a very large cluster such as about
                  a hundred hosts. This performance problem is fixed now by reducing the number of
                  SQLs made to the database. The page load time is now reduced dramatically.







OPSAPS-63077: Fix
                commissioning/recommissioning NodeManager failure in YARN

When the yarn.scheduler.configuration.store.class property is set to zk and YARN
                  Queue Manager is not installed and enabled in a cluster every YARN node
                  decommission causes an exception. With this fix, no refreshQueues command is
                  called when ZooKeeper configuration store is used, but YARN Queue Manager is
                  not.







OPSAPS-65242
Fixed an issue where an Event Server cleanup did not
                work properly and now it works as intended, uses less CPU and keeps the events
                within the requested limits.






OPSAPS-66022
When a Hive ACID replication policy run is skipped,
                the replication policy status incorrectly shows Failed or
                  Error. This issue is fixed.




The repositories for Cloudera Manager 7.7.1-CHF4 are listed in the following table:
Table 1. Cloudera Manager 7.7.1-CHF4

Repository Type
Repository Location



RHEL 8 Compatible
Repository:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/redhat8/yumRepository
                    File:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/redhat8/yum/cloudera-manager.repo


RHEL 7 Compatible
Repository:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/redhat7/yumRepository
                    File:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/redhat7/yum/cloudera-manager.repo


SLES 12
Repository:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/sles12/yumRepository
                    File:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/sles12/yum/cloudera-manager.repo


Ubuntu 20
Repository:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/ubuntu2004/aptRepository
                    file:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/ubuntu2004/apt/cloudera-manager.list


Ubuntu 18
Repository:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/ubuntu1804/aptRepository
                    file:https://username:password@archive.cloudera.com/p/cm7/patch/7.7.1-38008529/ubuntu1804/apt/cloudera-manager.list




 

Parent topic: Cumulative hotfixes