Known Issues in Cloudera Manager 7.7.1Cloudera Docs
Known Issues in Cloudera Manager 7.7.1
Known issues in Cloudera Manager 7.7.1


OPSAPS-67152: Cloudera Manager does not allow you to update some
          configuration parameters. 

Cloudera Manager does not allow you to set to "0" for the
              dfs_access_time_precision and
              dfs_namenode_accesstime_precision configuration parameters.
You will not be able to update dfs_access_time_precision and
              dfs_namenode_accesstime_precision to "0". If you try to enter "0" in
            these configuration input fields, then the field gets cleared off and results in a
            validation error: This field is required.


To fix this issue, perform the workaround steps as mentioned in the KB article.
If you need any guidance during this process, contact Cloudera support.



OPSAPS-65213: Ending the maintenance mode for a commissioned host
          with either an Ozone DataNode role or a Kafka Broker role running on it, might result in
          an error.

You may see the following error if you end the maintenance mode for Ozone and Kafka
            services from Cloudera Manager when the roles are not decommissioned on the host.

Execute command Recommission and Start on service OZONE-1
Failed to execute command Recommission and Start on service OZONE-1
Recommission and Start
Command Recommission and Start is not currently available for execution.




To resolve this issue, use the API support feature to take
            the host out of maintenance mode.
Log into Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.
Go to Hosts > All Hosts.
Select the host for which you need to end the maintenance mode from the available
                list and click the link to open the host details page.
Copy the Host ID from the Details
                section.
Go to Support > API Explorer.
Locate and click the /hosts/{hostId}/commands/exitMaintenanceMode
                endpoint for HostsResource API to view the API
                parameters.
Click Try it out.
Enter the ID of your host in the hostId field.
Click Execute.
Verify that the maintenance mode status is cleared for the host by checking the
                  Server response code.The operation is successful if the
                  API response code is 200.

 If you need any guidance during this process, contact Cloudera support for further
            assistance.



Cloudera bug: OPSAPS-64029
When Cloudera Manager is upgraded from prior
          versions to 7.7.1 or later, Queue Manager (QM) will be flagged as
          stale due to new support for auto-configuration of QM with Yarn
          Resource Manager (RM). 
Restart the QM role at a convenient
          time.




Cloudera bug:
            OPSAPS-63881:  When CDP Private Cloud Base is running on
          RHEL/CentOS/Oracle Linux 8.4,  services fail to start because service
          directories under the /var/lib directory are created
          with 700 permission instead of 755. 
Run the following command on all managed
          hosts to change the permissions to 755. Run the command for each
          directory under
          /var/lib:chmod -R 755 [***path_to_service_dir***]
x


Cloudera Bug: OPSAPS-63838: Cloudera
          Manager is unavailable after failover
When high availability is enabled for Cloudera
          Manager, and there is a failover from the Active to the Passive
          server, the Cloudera Manager server may be unavailable for 15-20
          seconds when failing back to the Active server. 


Known Issues in Replication Manager


OPSAPS-64388 - Schedule creation API doesn't stop user from
              creating a bucket within a bucket
When the bucket path in the source and target clusters are
            different, the replication policy creation API does not fail but the Ozone replication
            fails with the Ozone File Listing Command Failed error.
Before you create the Ozone replication policy using
            Cloudera Manager APIs, ensure that the path of the bucket which includes the volume name
            and bucket name in the target cluster is same as in the source cluster.




OPSAPS-64466 - JCKS way of authentication on Ozone causes
              YARN to go down on Auto-TLS cluster
During the Ozone replication policy job for OBS buckets, the
            YARN application goes down and does not restart when the authentication credentials for
            Auto-TLS is provided using the
              hadoop.security.credential.provider.path property where the
            value is the JKS file.
Configure fs.s3a.secret.key and
              fs.s3a.access.key in the Ozone Client Advanced
              Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) property in the
              ozone-conf.xml and ozone-site.xml files so
            that the Ozone replication policies use the authentication credentials in these files
            for OBS bucket replication.




OPSAPS-64501 - Hive 3 replication | CMHA | Failover doesn't
              go to completion status on its own
This behavior is observed when high availability is enabled for
            both source and target clusters’ Cloudera Manager instances. When you click Actions > Start Failover for a successful Hive ACID table replication policy on the
                Replication Policies page, the policy job does not transition
              to failover status for a long time. When you click Actions > Revert/Complete failover for the same replication policy, the policy transitions to failover
              complete and then eventually disables the policy. 




OPSAPS-64879 - Replication policies with empty name are not
              shown on the UI
Replication policies with an empty name do not appear on the
              Replication Policies page.
Provide a unique replication policy name during
            replication policy creation.




Parent topic: Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 Release Notes