Known Issues in Cloudera Manager 7.7.3Cloudera Docs
Known Issues in Cloudera Manager 7.7.3
Known issues in Cloudera Manager 7.7.3


OPSAPS-67152: Cloudera Manager does not allow you to update some
          configuration parameters. 

Cloudera Manager does not allow you to set to "0" for the
              dfs_access_time_precision and
              dfs_namenode_accesstime_precision configuration parameters.
You will not be able to update dfs_access_time_precision and
              dfs_namenode_accesstime_precision to "0". If you try to enter "0" in
            these configuration input fields, then the field gets cleared off and results in a
            validation error: This field is required.


To fix this issue, perform the workaround steps as mentioned in the KB article.
If you need any guidance during this process, contact Cloudera support.



Cloudera bug: OPSAPS-59764: Memory leak in the
          Cloudera Manager agent while downloading the parcels.

When using the M2Crpyto library in the Cloudera Manager agent to download parcels
            causes a memory leak.
The Cloudera Manager server requires parcels to install a cluster. If any of the URLs
            of parcels are modified, then the server provides information to all the Cloudera
            Manager agent processes that are installed on each cluster host.
The Cloudera Manager agent then starts checking for updates regularly by downloading
            the manifest file that is available under each of the URLs. However, if the URL is
            invalid or not reachable to download the parcel, then the Cloudera Manager agent shows a
            404 error message and the memory of the Cloudera Manager agent process increases due to
            a memory leak in the file downloader code of the agent.


To prevent this memory leak, ensure all URLs of parcels in Cloudera Manager are
            reachable. To achieve this, delete all unused and unreachable parcels from the Cloudera
            Manager parcels page.



Cloudera bug: OPSAPS-66235 Diagnostic
          bundle missing host statistics  
Diagnostic bundles do not include host
          statistics. The following error message displays in the command
          output: Collect Host Statistics sub-command has
            failed.
None


Cloudera bug:
            OPSAPS-65243 Diagnostic data collection for YARN fails
Selecting Collect Diagnostic
            Data from the
              YARN >  Applications
             page fails to generate the diagnostic
          data. 
None


Cloudera bug: OPSAPS-65269 Hosts report no
          heartbeat after upgrading to Cloudera Manager 7.7.3 and then rolling
          back to Cloudera Manager 7.7.1.
After upgrading Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 to
          7.7.3 and then rolling back to 7.7.1 Cloudera Manager may report no
          heartbeat from one or more hosts and also reports bad health for
          services.
Reboot the hosts. 

Cloudera bug: OPSAPS-65189: Accessing Cloudera Manager through Knox displays the
          following error:
Bad Message 431 reason: Request Header Fields Too
            LargeWorkaround: Modify the Cloudera Manager Server
          configuration /etc/default/cloudera-scm-server file to increase the
          header size from 8 KB, which is the default value, to 65 KB in the Java options as shown
          below:export CMF_JAVA_OPTS="...existing options...
-Dcom.cloudera.server.cmf.WebServerImpl.HTTP_HEADER_SIZE_BYTES=65536
-Dcom.cloudera.server.cmf.WebServerImpl.HTTPS_HEADER_SIZE_BYTES=65536"

OPSAPS-65213: Ending the maintenance mode for a commissioned host
          with either an Ozone DataNode role or a Kafka Broker role running on it, might result in
          an error.

You may see the following error if you end the maintenance mode for Ozone and Kafka
            services from Cloudera Manager when the roles are not decommissioned on the host.

Execute command Recommission and Start on service OZONE-1
Failed to execute command Recommission and Start on service OZONE-1
Recommission and Start
Command Recommission and Start is not currently available for execution.




To resolve this issue, use the API support feature to take
            the host out of maintenance mode.
Log into Cloudera Manager as an Administrator.
Go to Hosts > All Hosts.
Select the host for which you need to end the maintenance mode from the available
                list and click the link to open the host details page.
Copy the Host ID from the Details
                section.
Go to Support > API Explorer.
Locate and click the /hosts/{hostId}/commands/exitMaintenanceMode
                endpoint for HostsResource API to view the API
                parameters.
Click Try it out.
Enter the ID of your host in the hostId field.
Click Execute.
Verify that the maintenance mode status is cleared for the host by checking the
                  Server response code.The operation is successful if the
                  API response code is 200.

 If you need any guidance during this process, contact Cloudera support for further
            assistance.



Cloudera bug: OPSAPS-65443 Phoenix requires
          Python 2.7 
Phoenix requires Python 2.7 in order to run in
          Cloudera Manager 7.7.3 GA, CHF 1, and CHF 2. 
Fix will be available in Cloudera
          Manager 7.7.3 CHF3. 



Parent topic: Cloudera Manager 7.7.3 Release Notes