What's New in Cloudera Manager 7.7.1Cloudera Docs
What's New in Cloudera Manager 7.7.1
New features and changed behavior for Cloudera Manager
    7.7.1.
New features

Cloudera Manager High Availability
You can configure Cloudera Manager for high availability using an Active-Passive
            failover configuration by installing a load balancer and setting some additional
            configuration properties. See Configuring Cloudera Manager for High
              Availability.noteCloudera Manager high availability
              feature is only supported with CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 version or
            higher.
Cloudera Manager Secure Credential Store 
You can configure Cloudera Manager to encrypt sensitive
            information stored in the Cloudera Manager database by configuring a
            Credential Storage Provider (CSP). See Configuring a Secure Credential Storage Provider for Cloudera
              Manager (Technical Preview) .
New Core Settings service replaces Core Configuration Service
The Core Settings Service allows you to store configuration data
            without needing to include HDFS in the cluster. See Core Settings Service. 


Hive ACID replication policies using Replication Manager
You can create Hive ACID table replication policies in Replication
            Manager to copy ACID tables between CDP Private Cloud Base clusters for backup, load
            balancing, and other purposes. See Hive ACID table replication
              policies


Ozone replication policies using Cloudera Manager APIs
You can use Cloudera Manager APIs to create Ozone replication
            policies to replicate data in Ozone buckets between CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.8 clusters or higher
            using Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 or higher. See Ozone replication
            policies.


Platform support updates


RedHat 8.6 is now a supported operating system
RedHat 8.6 is now supported with Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 and
              Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8.
MariaDB 10.6 is now a supported operating database
MariaDB 10.6 is now supported with Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 and
              Cloudera Runtime 7.1.8.
Updated PostgreSQL JDBC driver 
The PostgreSQL JDBC driver bundled with Cloudera Manger is now
              updated to version 42.2.24.



Changed or updated features 

Upgrades to Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 are not supported when there is
            a CDH 5 cluster present
Cloudera Manager will not allow an upgrade to CDP Private Cloud
            Base 7.1.8/Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 if Cloudera Manager is managing a
            CDH 5.x cluster. To upgrade a CDH 5 cluster:
Upgrade Cloudera Manager to version 6.3.4.
Upgrade CDH to version 6.3.4
Upgrade Cloudera Manager to version 7.6.5 or higher.


Functionality to disable Credential Storage Provider feature
Customers with Credential Storage Provider (CSP) enabled can
            disable the functionality if and when required.
New configuration parameters for user and group creation for
            Parcel file permissions
Decoupled the configuration setting in Cloudera Manager to allow
            user creation and updating file permissions to be performed
            separately during parcel installation. Two new configuration
            parameters have replaced the Create Users and
              Groups and Apply File Permissions for
              Parcels parameter. See Parcel Configuration
              Settings. 
Optimize Avro metrics from agent to Service Monitor
Implemented an optimization in the communication between the
            Cloudera Manager Agent and Service Monitor that significantly
            increases monitoring throughput for services that rely on the
            affected part of the protocol. Examples of services that benefit
            from this improved scalability are Kudu and Kafka. No action is
            required to use the optimization.
Cloudera Manager now supports Active Directory objects with additional attributes

Cloudera Manager now supports Active Directory objects with additional
              attributes other than just accountExpires and
                objectClass for every new account creation. You can use these
              additional attributes of an object to identify or search for objects in the Active
              Directory network using LDAP queries.
You can now start using some of the sample attributes such as
                employeeType, Usertype,
                Manager, passwordNeverExpires,
              etc.




Parent topic: Cloudera Manager 7.7.1 Release Notes