List of required configuration parameters for the Confluent Cloud to Snowflake ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
List of required configuration parameters for the
      Confluent Cloud to Snowflake ReadyFlow
When deploying the Confluent Cloud to Snowflake ReadyFlow, you have to provide the following parameters. Use the
  information you collected in Prerequisites.
Table 1. Confluent Cloud to Snowflake ReadyFlow configuration parameters

Parameter Name
Description



CSV Delimiter
If your source data is CSV, specify the delimiter here.


Data Input Format

Specify the format of your input data. You can use "CSV", "JSON" or "AVRO" with
        this ReadyFlow.


CSV


JSON


AVRO





Filter Rule

Specify the filter rule expressed in SQL to filter streaming events for the
        destination database. Records matching the filter will be written to the destination
        database. The default value forwards all records.



Kafka Broker Endpoint

Specify the Kafka bootstrap server.



Kafka Client API Key

Specify the API Key to connect to the Kafka cluster.



Kafka Client API Secret

Specify the API Secret to connect to the Kafka cluster.



Kafka Consumer Group Id

The name of the consumer group used for the source topic you are consuming
        from.



Kafka Schema Name

Specify the schema name to be looked up in the Confluent Schema Registry for the
        Source Kafka Topic.



Kafka Source Topic

Specify a topic name that you want to read from.



Schema Registry Client Key
Specify the API Key to connect to the Confluent Schema Registry.


Schema Registry Client Secret
Specify the API Secret to connect to the Confluent Schema Registry.


Schema Registry Endpoint
Specify the Confluent Schema Registry API endpoint.


Snowflake Account Name

Specify the Snowflake Account Name.



Snowflake Organization
Specify the Snowflake organization name.


Snowflake Pipe
Specify the Snowflake pipe.


Snowflake Private Key File
Upload the Snowflake private key file.


Snowflake Private Key Password
Specify the password for the Snowflake private key.


Snowflake User Name
Specify your Snowflake user name.


Snowflake User Password

Specify the Snowflake user password.



Snowflake Warehouse
Specify your Snowflake warehouse. The default value is COMPUTE_WH


Table Name

Specify the Snowflake table name you want to write to.



Target Database Name

Specify the Snowflake database you want to write to.



Target Schema Name
Specify the schema of the Snowflake database. The default value is
       PUBLIC



Related conceptsPrerequisitesRelated informationDeploying a ReadyFlow