Configuring TLS/SSL for Apache AtlasCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL for Apache Atlas
How to configure TLS/SSL for Apache Atlas if you don't choose to
    use Cloudera Manager's Auto-TLS.
Typically you would configure TLS for Atlas by using
      Cloudera Manager's Auto-TLS option. If you need to change these settings or want to understand
      more about the values set by Cloudera Manager, follow these steps. noteIn CDP Cloud,
        communication among services within the cluster is configured to use TLS by default. There
        is no need to manually configure TLS for Atlas in an SDX cluster.


In Cloudera Manager, select the Atlas service, then click the
          Configuration tab.

Under Category, select Security.

Set or update the following properties.

Table 1. Apache Atlas TLS/SSL Settings

Grouping
Configuration Property
Description



Turn on TLS

Enable TLS/SSL for Atlas Server
atlas.enableTLS

Select this check box to encrypt Atlas server communication using Transport
                    Layer Security (TLS) (formerly known as Secure Socket Layer (SSL)). This option
                    enables TLS for communication between clients and Atlas Server, between the
                    Atlas Server as a client and services it depends on, such as HBase, and between
                    the Atlas Gateway server and Kafka messaging topics.note You
                      must set the value of atlas.ssl.exclude.protocols
                      configuration as TLSv1,TLSv1.1


Private Key Management
Atlas Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                    Location
                    keystore.file

The path to the TLS/SSL keystore file containing the
                    server certificate and private key Atlas uses to prove its
                    own identity when it receives communication from other
                    applications using the public key identified in Atlas Server
                    TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File. The keystore must be in JKS
                    format.


Atlas Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                    Password
                    keystore.password
The password that allows access to the Atlas Server JKS
                    keystore file.


Atlas Server TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                    Password
                    password

The password that protects the Atlas Server private key contained in the
                    JKS keystore.


Public Key Management
Atlas Server TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
                    truststore.file

The path to a TLS/SSL public key trust store file, in
                    .jks format, that contains Atlas server
                    public key. This trust store must contain the certificate(s)
                    used to sign the connected service(s). If this parameter is
                    not provided, the default list of well-known certificate
                    authorities is used instead.


Atlas Server TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
                    truststore.password

(Optional) The password for the Atlas Server TLS/SSL
                    Certificate trust store file. This password is not required
                    to access the trust store; this field can be left blank.
                    This password provides optional integrity checking of the
                    file. The contents of trust stores are certificates, and
                    certificates are public information.


Gateway TLS/SSL Client Trust Store File
                    atlas.kafka.ssl.truststore.location
The path to the trust store file, in
                    .jks format, used to confirm the
                    authenticity of TLS/SSL servers that the Atlas Gateway might
                    connect to. This trust store must contain the certificate(s)
                    used to sign the service(s) connected to. If this parameter
                    is not provided, the default list of well-known certificate
                    authorities is used instead.
                    Typically, this file is the same file listed in the truststore.file.


Gateway TLS/SSL Client Trust Store Password
                    atlas.kafka.ssl.truststore.password
The password for the Gateway TLS/SSL Certificate trust
                    store file. This password is not required to access the
                    trust store; this field can be left blank. This password
                    provides optional integrity checking of the file. The
                    contents of trust stores are certificates, and certificates
                    are public information.




Click Save Changes.
Restart the Atlas service.

Related informationEnable Auto-TLS