Configuring Atlas AuthenticationCloudera Docs
Configuring Atlas Authentication
This section describes how to configure the authentication methods
    that determine who is allowed to log in to the Atlas web UI. The
    authentication options are Kerberos, LDAP—including AD, PAM, or
    file-based.
Atlas allows more than one authentication method to be enabled at one time.
      If more than one authentication method is enabled, users failing the first
      method are authenticated against the second method. The priority order of
      the methods is Kerberos, LDAP, then file-based authentication. For example
      if both Kerberos and LDAP authentication are enabled, a request without a
      Kerberos principal and keytab are authenticated using LDAP.
Specifying more than one authentication method allows you to setup useful
      production and development scenarios: 
In a Production environment, you might configure Kerberos for
          service account access to the Atlas server while also supporting LDAP
          authentication for users logging in through the UI.
In a Development environment, you might configure Kerberos for
          service account access while leaving file-based authentication enabled
          to allow a limited number of administrator to access the Atlas
          UI.
noteBy default, Cloudera Manager installs Atlas with PAM
        authentication with full Atlas access given to the username you
        configure for this authentication method. This configuration ensures a
        smooth end-to-end installation experience. Be sure to disable PAM
        authentication when you configure your production authentication
          method.


Configure Kerberos authentication for Apache AtlasHow to configure Kerberos Authentication for Apache AtlasConfigure Atlas authentication for ADHow to configure Atlas to use AD for user authentication when     using AD cluster-wide.Configure Atlas authentication for LDAPHow to configure Atlas to use LDAP for user authentication.Configure Atlas PAM authenticationBy default in Data Center installations, Atlas uses PAM authentication, which means     valid Atlas users correspond to the users configured for the operating system on the host where     Atlas runs. Cloud installations do not use PAM authentication.Configure Atlas file-based authenticationHow to manage Atlas user authentication when using user credentials     from a file.