Configuring Ranger Authorization for AtlasCloudera Docs
Configuring Ranger Authorization for Atlas
Atlas is configured to use Ranger for authorization by default. You
    might need to change configuration settings to disable Ranger as the source
    of authorization in a development environment; Ranger authorization is
    highly recommended in a production environment. In addition, there are some
    configuration values that you might need to change should you make
    significant changes to how Atlas and Ranger are installed in your
    cluster.

Atlas behaves like any other service when it comes to integrating with
        Ranger for access control: turn on Ranger authorization from the
        Cloudera Manager configuration page for the Atlas service. This
        integration allows Atlas to use Ranger policies to determine
        authorization for user actions in Atlas; Atlas also reports success or
        failure against the policies back to Ranger. In addition to this
        standard integration for authorization, Atlas integrates with Ranger to
        send metadata updates to Ranger using a Kafka topic. The configuration
        properties that support the two integration paths include specifying
        HDFS locations for caching Ranger policies, storing Atlas audits, and
        storing other metadata exchanged between the two services. In rare
        circumstances, you may need to relocate these storage locations. 
importantNative Hadoop Library must be added to the ATLAS classpath for Ranger
        group authorization to work. If this is missing from the Atlas class path, for users
        affected who need Hadoop Group based authorization to work, the below details must be added
        to the Environment Safety Valve for Atlas Server:Key :
          ATLAS_CUSTOM_OPTSValue :
            -Djava.library.path=${CDH_HADOOP_HOME}/lib/native


Minimum Required Role in Cloudera Manager: Full Administrator.
          


In Cloudera Manager, select the Atlas service, then open the
            Configuration tab.

To display the Ranger configuration settings, type "ranger" in the
          Search box.

To modify the behavior of the Atlas to Ranger integration, update
          the following properties:


To disable Atlas authentication through Ranger
Uncheck the RANGER Service property.
                Leave the supporting properties as is so you can re-instate
                Ranger easily if needed.
To set where Atlas stores intermediate data for Ranger audits
                and cached authorization policies
Review and potentially change the path value for these
                properties: 
Ranger Atlas Plugin Hdfs Audit
                      Directory (HDFS location)
Ranger Atlas Plugin Audit Hdfs Spool Directory
                      Path (local file system location)
Ranger Atlas Plugin Audit Solr Spool Directory
                      Path (local file system location)
Ranger Atlas Plugin Policy Cache Directory Path
                      (local file system location)

To re-instate Ranger after disabling it
Enable the RANGER Service property. The
                supporting properties should still be
                  available.

Restart the Atlas service.

Parent topic: Configuring Atlas Authorization