Configure Atlas authentication for ADCloudera Docs
Configure Atlas authentication for AD
How to configure Atlas to use AD for user authentication when
    using AD cluster-wide.

noteIn CDP Cloud, identity management is provided by FreeIPA and
      configured using the Management Console. There is no need to manually
      configure authentication settings for Atlas. For more information on FreeIPA, see the CDP
      Management Console documentation.
The settings indicated in these steps apply to Atlas authentication
        and it is likely that the values will be the same as you use to
        configure other services on the cluster.


In Cloudera Manager, select the Atlas service, then open the Configuration
                    tab.

To display the authentication settings, type "authentication" in
          the Search box. You may need to scroll down to see all of the AD
          settings.

Configure the following settings for AD authentication:



Property
Description
Sample values



Enable LDAP
                    Authenticationatlas.authentication.method.ldap
Determines whether LDAP is used for
                    authentication.
true


LDAP Authentication
                    Typeatlas.authentication.method.ldap.type
The LDAP type (ldap,
                      ad, or none).
ad



AD URL
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.url

The AD server URL.
ldap://<AD-Servername>:Port



AD Bind DN Username
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.bind.dn

Full distinguished name (DN), including common name
                    (CN), of an AD user account that has privileges to
                    search.
 cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com



AD Bind DN Password
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.bind.password

Password for the account that can search in AD.
Secret123!


AD Domain Name (Only for
                    AD)atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.domain
AD domain, only used if Authentication method is
                    AD.
example.com



AD User Search Filter 
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.user.searchfilter

The AD user search filter. 

                      (&(objectClass=person)(sAMAccountName={0})((memberof=CN=YourOrgCommonName,OU=YourOrgUnit_1,OU=YourOrgUnit_2,DC=YourDomainComponent)))



AD Base DN
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.base.dn

The Distinguished Name (DN) of the starting point for
                    directory server searches. 
dc=example,dc=com



AD User Default Role
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.default.role

AD User default Role.
ROLE_USER



AD Referral
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.referral*

See below. Defaults to ignore.
follow


* There are three possible values for
              atlas.authentication.method.ldap.ad.referral:
              follow, throw, and
              ignore. The recommended setting is
              follow.
When searching a directory, the server might return several search
            results, along with a few continuation references that show where to
            obtain further results. These results and references might be
            interleaved at the protocol level.


When this property is set to follow, the AD
                service provider processes all of the normal entries first, and
                then follows the continuation references.


When this property is set to throw, all of the
                normal entries are returned in the enumeration first, before the
                  ReferralException is thrown. By contrast, a
                "referral" error response is processed immediately when this
                property is set to follow or
                  throw.


When this property is set to ignore, it
                indicates that the server should return referral entries as
                ordinary entries (or plain text). This might return partial
                results for the search. In the case of AD, a
                  PartialResultException is returned when
                referrals are encountered while search results are
                processed.




Click Save Changes.
Restart the Atlas service.

Related informationAuthentication OverviewCDP Cloud Management Console: Managing user access and authorizationParent topic: Configuring Atlas Authentication