Configure Atlas authentication for LDAPCloudera Docs
Configure Atlas authentication for LDAP
How to configure Atlas to use LDAP for user authentication.

noteIn CDP Cloud, identity management is provided by FreeIPA and
            configured using the Management Console. There is no need to manually
            configure authentication settings for Atlas. For more information on FreeIPA, see the CDP
            Management Console documentation.
The settings indicated in these steps apply to Atlas authentication
        and it is likely that the values will be the same as you use to
        configure other services on the cluster.


In Cloudera Manager, select the Atlas service, then open the Configuration
                tab.

To display the authentication settings, type "authentication" in the Search
                    box. You may need to scroll down to see all of the LDAP settings.

noteHadoop groups were not included during user/group lookup,
            because Atlas queries the UserGroupInformation for that specific user at the
            Operating System level (org.apache.hadoop.security.ShellBasedUnixGroupsMapping package).
            At the time of logging into the Atlas UI, it was seen that "no such user as Gen.tleman"
            exception was thrown. When user selects the LDAP configuration from Cloudera Manager,
            they must configure (org.apache.hadoop.security.LdapGroupsMapping package) in
              core-site.xml file and also add
              atlas.authentication.ugi-groups.include-hadoop-groups=true property.
              Later, the user can sync the Hadoop group and create entity and
              classification.Include the property
                atlas.authentication.ugi-groups.include-hadoop-groups=true in Atlas
              safety valve (atlas-application.properties file), as it takes groups
              from Hadoop LDAP-based group mapping.


Configure the following settings for LDAP authentication:



Grouping
Property
Description
Sample values



Enable LDAP Authentication
Enable LDAP Authentication
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap
Determines whether LDAP is used for
                    authentication.
true


LDAP Authentication
                    Typeatlas.authentication.method.ldap.type
The LDAP type (ldap,
                      ad, or none).
ldap


LDAP Server Location
LDAP Server URL
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.url

The LDAP server URL.
ldap://localhost:389 or
                      ldaps://localhost:636


Bind Credentials
LDAP Bind Username
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.bind.dn
Full distinguished name (DN), including common name
                    (CN), of an LDAP user account that has privileges to query
                    the LDAP database of user accounts on behalf of Atlas. This
                    could be a read-only LDAP user.
cn=admin,ou=people,dc=example,dc=com



LDAP Bind DN Password
atlas.authentication.method.ldap.bind.password

Password for the account that can search for
                    users.
Secret123!


Group Lookup
LDAP Group-Search Base
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.groupSearchBase
The organizational unit (OU) and domain component (DC)
                    properties for the LDAP search tree where Atlas searches for
                    groups. 
(|(CN=Hdp_users)(CN=Hdp_admins))


LDAP Group-Search Filter
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.groupSearchFilter
(Optional) Refine the scope of LDAP group search. The
                    Groups-Search Filter is combined with the Group-Search Base
                    to define the group lookup.




Role Assignment
LDAP Group-Role Attribute
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.groupRoleAttribute
The attribute stored in the LDAP Group object to use to
                    map LDAP groups to Atlas roles.
cn


LDAP User Default
                    Roleatlas.authentication.method.ldap.default.role
Atlas role to assign to LDAP users.



LDAP Search-Bind Authentication
                    Mode
LDAP DN
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.base.dn
The Distinguished Name (DN) of the starting point of
                    the LDAP search tree for directory server searches. You can
                    also specify a User Search Filter to further reduce the
                    scope of the search. 
dc=example,dc=com


LDAP User Search Filter
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.user.searchfilter
The LDAP user search filter. Used with the User Search
                    Base to further limit the scope of the search for a
                    directory entry that matches the credentials of the user
                    logging into Atlas.Use a user search filter along with a
                      DN pattern so that the search filter provides a fallback
                      if the DN pattern search fails.




LDAP Direct-Bind Authentication Mode
LDAP User DN Pattern
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.userDNpattern

Direct-bind authentication can be used if search is not
                    required to determine the DN needed to bind to the LDAP
                    server. Leave this property blank if LDAP DN is
                      set.To use this authentication mode, all users must be
                      under a single branch in the LDAP directory.
To search for a distinguished name where the
                      uid attribute is the username
                    at login, you might provide a pattern such as:
                    uid={0},ou=users,dc=xasecure,dc=netwhere {0} indicates the username of the authenticating user. If a user provides the username "foo" at the login page, Atlas searches for the DN:
uid=foo,ou=People,dc=corp,dc=com


LDAP Referral
LDAP Referral
                    atlas.authentication.method.ldap.referral*
See below. Defaults to ignore.
follow


* There are three possible values for
              atlas.authentication.method.ldap.referral:
              follow, throw, and
              ignore. The recommended setting is
              follow.
When searching a directory, the server might return several search results,
                        along with a few continuation references that show where to obtain further
                        results. These results and references might be interleaved at the protocol
                        level.


When this property is set to
                  follow, the LDAP service provider processes
                all of the normal entries first, and then follows the
                continuation references.


When this property is set to throw, all of the
                                normal entries are returned in the enumeration first, before the
                                    ReferralException is thrown. By contrast, a
                                "referral" error response is processed immediately when this
                                property is set to follow or
                                throw.


When this property is set to
                  ignore, it indicates that the server should
                return referral entries as ordinary entries (or plain text).
                This might return partial results for the search. In the case of
                LDAP, a PartialResultException is returned when
                referrals are encountered while search results are
                processed.




Click Save Changes.
Restart the Atlas service.

Related informationCDP Cloud Management Console: Managing user access and authorizationParent topic: Configuring Atlas Authentication