Introduction to Operational DatabaseCloudera Docs
Introduction to Operational Database
Cloudera Operational Database delivers a real-time, always available, scalable
        operational database that serves traditional structured data alongside unstructured data
        within a unified operational and warehousing platform.
Cloudera Operational Database is a CDP Public Cloud service for self-service creation of
            an operational database. Cloudera Operational Database is designed to be used by
            developers. You do not need a dedicated team of system administrators to run an
            on-premise cluster of physical servers. You can go directly to CDP and provision a new
            database, therefore letting you rapidly prototype and deploy new applications onto the
            public cloud.
Apache HBase
Apache HBase is a column-oriented database management system that runs on top of the
            Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), a main component of Apache Hadoop. It enables
            random, strictly consistent, and real-time access to petabytes of data.
Apache Phoenix
Apache Phoenix is a SQL layer for Apache HBase that provides a programmatic ANSI SQL
            interface. Apache Phoenix implements best-practice optimizations to enable software
            engineers to develop HBase based next-generation applications that operationalize big
            data.
Apache Kafka
Apache Kafka is a distributed streaming platform that is used to build real-time
            applications.
Apache Spark
Apache Spark is a general framework for distributed computing that offers high
            performance for both batch and interactive processing. It exposes APIs for Java, Python,
            and Scala and consists of Spark core and several related projects.
Apache Nifi
Apache Nifi is used to develop, manage, and monitor data flows.
Apache Hive
Apache Hive is a data warehouse software that facilitates reading, writing, and managing
            large datasets residing in distributed storage using SQL.
Apache Hue
Apache Hue is a SQL assistant for databases and data warehouses.
Apache Impala
Apache Impala is a modern, open source, distributed SQL query engine for Apache
            Hadoop.
Apache Knox
Apache Know Gateway provides access to Apache Hadoop through proxying of HTTP resources.
            It provides proxying services, authentication services, and client DSL or SDK
            services.
Cloudera Operational Database is powered by Apache HBase and Apache Phoenix. In Cloudera
            Operational Database, you use object store such as Amazon S3 and Microsoft ADLS Gen2 to
            store the Apache HBase files. You have the choice to either develop applications using
            one of the native Apache HBase API, or you can use Apache Phoenix for data access.
            Apache Phoenix is a SQL layer that provides a programmatic ANSI SQL interface. It works
            on top of Apache HBase, and it makes it possible to handle data using standard SQL
            queries and Apache Phoenix commands. You can use Cloudera Operational Database in the
            public cloud or on-premises.
Public cloud
Cloudera Operational Database (COD) that is a managed database platform as a service
            (dbPaaS).
On-premises

CDP Private Cloud Base

Cloudera Operational Database plays the crucial role of a data store in the enterprise
            data lifecycle. The following graphic shows some of the key elements in a typical
            operational database deployment.




The operational database has the following components:

Apache Phoenix provides a SQL interface that runs on top of
                Apache HBase. 
Apache HBase provides the key-value stores with massive scalability, so
                you can store unlimited amounts of data in a single platform and handle growing
                demands for serving data.
Apache ZooKeeper provides a distributed configuration service, a
                synchronization service, and a naming registry.
Apache Knox Gateway provides perimeter security so that the enterprise
                can confidently extend access to new users.
Apache HDFS is used to write the Apache HBase WALs.
Hue provides a web-based editor to create and browse Apache HBase
                tables.
Object store such as Amazon S3 and Microsoft ADLS Gen2 is used to store the Apache
                HBase HFiles.
Cloudera Shared Data Experience (SDX) is used for security and
                governance capabilities. Security and governance policies are set once and applied
                across all data and workloads.
IDBroker provides an authentication mechanism that is built as part of
                the Apache Knox authentication service. It allows an authenticated and authorized
                user to exchange a set of credentials or a token for cloud vendor access
                tokens.

Introduction to Apache HBaseApache HBase is a scalable, distributed, column-oriented datastore. Apache HBase   provides real-time read/write random access to very large datasets hosted on HDFS.Introduction to Apache PhoenixApache Phoenix is is a SQL layer for Apache HBase that provides a programmatic ANSI SQL     interface.