Creating your clusterCloudera Docs
Creating your cluster
If you meet all prerequisites, you are ready to create a managed and secured Edge
        Flow Management cluster in CDP Public Cloud by using the prescriptive cluster definition
        available in Technical Preview.

Log into the CDP web interface.

Navigate to Management Console  > Environments and select the environment where you want to create a
                    cluster.

Click Create Data Hub.

The Provision Data Hub page is displayed:





Select Cluster Definition.

Select the appropriate Edge Flow Management cluster definition from the
                        Cluster Definition dropdown depending on which cloud
                    privider you are using.

There are three template options available:
Edge Flow Management Light Duty for AWS
Edge Flow Management Light Duty for Azure
Edge Flow Management Light Duty for GCP

The cluster template referenced in the selected cluster definition determines
                        which services are included in the cluster. The list of services is
                        automatically displayed below the selected cluster definition name. It shows
                        that the cluster definition contains the Edge Flow Manager. 


Provide a cluster name and add tags you might need.
note
The name must be between 5 and 40 characters, it must start with a
                            letter, and should only include lowercase letters, numbers, and
                            hyphens.
You can define tags that will be applied to your cluster-related
                    resources on your cloud provider account. For more information, see
                        Tags.
Optional: 
Use the Configure Advanced Options section to customize
                    the infrastructure settings.

For more information on these options, see the Advanced cluster
                            options for your cloud environment.


Click Provision Cluster.


The new Data Hub cluster appears on the Data Hubs tab of the
                    Clusters page. You can follow the status of the
                provisioning process in the Status column. When your cluster
                is ready, its status changes to Running.


Related informationTagsAdvanced cluster options for AWSAdvanced cluster options for AzureAdvanced cluster options for GCP