Migrating a Hive table to IcebergCloudera Docs
Migrating a Hive table to Iceberg
 You see how to use a simple ALTER TABLE statement to migrate an external Hive table
        to an Iceberg table. You see how to configure table input and output by setting table
        properties.

When you migrate an external Hive table to Iceberg, Hive makes the
                following changes:


Converts the storage_handler, serde, inputformat and outputformat
                        properties of the table in HMS to use the Iceberg specific classes. 


Reads the footers of the existing data files and generates the
                        necessary Iceberg metadata files based on the footers.


Commits all the data files to the Iceberg table in a single
                        commit.


noteTo prevent loss of new and old table data during migration of a
                table to Iceberg, do not drop or move the old table during migration. Exception: If
                you set the table property 'external.table.purge'='FALSE', no data loss occurs when
                you drop the table.



You must meet the prerequisites for using Iceberg mentioned earlier.
.

noteMigrating an Impala table to Iceberg is not supported in this
                release.


Log in to the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse
                    service.

In the Data Warehouse service, in the Overview page, locate your Hive Virtual
                    Warehouse, and click Hue.
Instead of using Hue, you can connect over JDBC to the Hive Virtual Warehouse, and run the query.

Enter a query to use a database.
For
                    example:USE mydb;

Enter a Hive query to migrate an existing external Hive table to an Iceberg v2
                    table.
For example: ALTER TABLE tbl 
SET TBLPROPERTIES ('storage_handler'='org.apache.iceberg.mr.hive.HiveIcebergStorageHandler',
 'format-version' = '2');
Do not drop the table as explained above unless you set the
                    'external.table.purge' table property to false.

Click  to run the queries.
An Iceberg V2 table is created. The Hive table remains intact.


