Introduction to Stellar LanguageCloudera Docs
Introduction to Stellar Language
Stellar is a domain-specific language (DSL) provided with CCP as a scripting
      environment. You can use Stellar to filter, transform, and enrich data streaming from your
      topologies, along with create threat triage rules. You can also use Stellar to interact with
      various subsystems in CCP, including HBase, Profiler, and Model as a Service
      (MaaS).

One of the most common uses of Stellar is to enhance and manage data streaming from your
            topologies. You can create scripts to enrich and transform data. You can also use
            Stellar to create threat triage rules to provide a sortable score to alert messages.
            Because Stellar statements are stored in ZooKeeper, you do not need to restart a
            topology to add the new enrichment or field transformation. To implement a Stellar
            enrichment or transformation, you only need to update ZooKeeper.
You can also use Stellar to interact with various subsystems in CCP. For example, you
            can use Stellar to interact with data stores in HBase as an enrichment. You can also
            interact with Profiler to enable querying historical context. And you can interact with
            machine learning models deployed with MaaS to integrate the output of machine learning
            as an enrichment. 
The power and flexibility of Stellar is a result of the capabilities available in the
            scripting environment:


Provides commonly used simple functions (such as TO_UPPER,
                     TRIM, IN_SUBNET)
Provides functions to interface with the system at large (for example, data in
                  HBase, models deployed via MaaS)
Provides ability to create simple conditional statements
Provides map, list, numeric and string primitives
Can refer to variables
Provides the ability to compose simple solutions into more complex solutions
Provides the ability to define new functions
Provides a REPL (read, evaluate, print loop) to allow you to test Stellar
                  functions




