Creating calculated fieldsCloudera Docs
Creating calculated fields
In Cloudera Data Visualization, you can easily create a new calculated field in the
    dataset, and subsequently use it in dashboards and visuals.

Sometimes the data in the base tables cannot be used directly, and you must use an
        expression to change or "correct" it. For other use cases, you can create a calculation
        based on one or more fields. Instead of adding these expression for every visual, you can
        create a new calculated field in the dataset.
The following steps demonstrate how to create a new field gdp (gross
        domenstic product) in the dataset World Life Expectancy [data source
          main.world_life_expectancy]. We define it by the following
        equation:gdp = gdp_per_capita x populationData Visualization supports
        three primary methods of editing fields at the dataset level: Basic,
          Expression, and Display Format. In this
        example, we make changes both on the Basic and
          Expression tabs. For innformationn on how to use Display
          Format options, see Changing the Field Display Format..


On the main navigation bar, click DATA.

In the left navigation menu, click samples.

In the Datasets area, select World Life
            Expectancy
(main.world_life_expectancy).

In the Dataset Detail menu, select
          Fields.






In the Fields interface, select EDIT
            FIELDS.






Under Measures, find the field gdp_per_capita,
          and click the (down arrow) icon on its right side.

From the menu, select Clone.






Under Measures, find the new cloned field Copy of
            gdp_per_capita, click the Edit (pencil) icon on its
          right side.




The Edit Field Parameters window modal appears, which supports
            three primary methods of editing fields. They match the three tabs of the modal:
              Basic, Expression, and
              Display Format.


Make the following changes on the Basic tab:


Change Display Name to gdp.


Add Field Comment
gdp_per_capita * population.


Ensure that the Default Aggregation is
              Sum.








Click the Expression tab and make the following changes:


Change Expression to [gdp_per_capita] *
                [population].


Click VALIDATE EXPRESSION to ensure that the calculation
              works.


When the Validation Successful message appears on the modal,
              click APPLY.






The new calculated field has an equal sign (=) notation.


Under Dataset: World Life Expectancy, click
            SAVE.


Parent topic: Changing dataset fields
Testing calculated fields
In Cloudera Data Visualization, you can easily test whether a newly calculated field
      works correctly or not.

Click New Dashboard in the top right corner of this
            interface.

Select the Combined Bar/Line visual type.




Populate the shelves from the available fields in the following way:


Under Dimensions, select country, and
                place it on the Dimensions shelf.


Under Dimensions, select year, and place
                it on the Filters shelf.


In the Filter for year modal window, under the
                  Value tab, select the year 2010.


Under Dimensions, select un_region, and
                place it on the Filters shelf.


In the Filter for un_region modal window, under the
                  Value tab, select Europe.


Under Measures, select gdp_per_capita,
                and place it on the Bar Measure shelf.


Under Measures, select gdp, and place it
                on the Line Measure shelf.


Click the arrow on gdp field.


In the Field Properties under Axis,
                select Secondary Axis.








Click REFRESH VISUAL.


The two measurements appear on the graph, superimposed on each other: the original
            gdp_per_capita represented by the bars, and the calculated
            gdp, represented by the line.






