Running a data extractCloudera Docs
Running a data extract
Learn how to run or refresh a data extract.
After creating a data extract, you must run it as an initial
      'refresh' to populate the target table and allow building a dataset or dashboard on the target
      table. When the original data changes, becomes stale or invalid, you can manually refresh the
      extracted data by running your data extract.

Click DATA on the main navigation bar.
The Data view appears, open on the
            Datasets tab.

In the left navigation panel, select the connection where your source dataset is
          defined.

Select the dataset of your extract.

Click Data Extracts in the left navigation panel.

Select the data extract you want to run/refresh.

Click RUN NOW.
A confirmation modal window appears where you have to confirm the action.

Click RUN EXTRACT.

A green success message is displayed and while the refresh is in progress, the state of
            the extract shows as Running. When the refresh is successfully completed, the
            state of the extract changes to Success.



You can check out the extract refresh job logs on the Job Logs
            tab of the Jobs page. For more information, see Job
              log.



You can configure extracts to be automatically refreshed, and you can define
            a schedule for the automatic refreshes to update the data included in the extract.
If you set a refresh schedule for the extract to run, you can see the job logs on the
              Scheduled Jobs tab of the Jobs page. For
            more information, see Scheduled jobs.



You can edit an existing schedule in the Edit Data Extract modal
            window from the Data Extracts view. For more information, see
              Editing a data extract. Or you can also update an existing schedule in
            the Manage Schedule Intervals interface. For more information,
            see Changing schedule intervals.



Related informationJob logScheduled jobsEditing a data extractChanging schedule intervalsParent topic: Working with data extracts in Data Visualization