Creating a data extractCloudera Docs
Creating a data extract
Learn how you can extract data from a dataset to a table in the same or a different
    data connection.

You need the following privileges to work with data extracts: 
Manage dataset  right for the source dataset
Manage AVs/extracts right for source and target data connections.

Follow these steps to create a data extract:


Click DATA on the main navigation bar.
The Data view appears, open on the
            Datasets tab.

In the left navigation panel, select the connection on which your source dataset is
          defined.

Select the dataset you want to use as a source for the data extract.

Click Data Extracts in the left navigation panel.
In the Data Extracts view, you can create data extracts and
          manage extracts that exist from this dataset.

Click CREATE DATA EXTRACT.




The CREATE DATA EXTRACT modal window appears.





Select the frequency for the Data Extract refreshes.
The default is Manual, but you can create custom schedules. For
          more information, see Managing schedule intervals.

Select the data connection where the Data Extract will be stored.
It can be the same connection where the source dataset is or you can also choose a
          different connection.noteIn Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) you
            cannot choose SQLite data connections as targets because those connections are
            read-only.

Select the database on the previously selected connection where you want to store the
          Data Extract.

Enter a target table name, starting with cdv_.

notecdv_ is the default prefix for target
            table names. If you have admin privileges, you can change the prefix in the Advanced
            Site Settings by changing the value in DATA_EXTRACTS_TARGET_TABLENAME_PREFIX =
              "cdv_".


Select the dimension and measure fields depending on what data you want to store in
          your extract.
If you want to use the selected measures as they are and you do not want the columns
          to be aggregated, deselect the Use aggregate functions below
          option. noteYou must select at least one dimension or measure
            field.When configuring a data extract, you can  search for a column by name,
            as well as view the field types and complex data types available.
Optional: 
If you want to send an email confirmation about the extract's status, switch to the
            Advanced tab of the Create Data Extract
          modal window.

importantThe Advanced tab is
            only visible if you enabled sending visuals and receiving extract refresh status
            messages through email in Site Settings.



Select what event(s) you want to be notified about - success, failure or
              both.


Add one or more email addresses as recipients.


You can edit the default subject line of the notification email.








Click CREATE DATA EXTRACT after all required fields are
          completed.
When the extract is created, you can refresh it manually or it will be refreshed on
          the schedule you defined in Step
            5.

noteAfter the source dataset becomes associated with the
            data extract, a new tag appears in the Datasets list showing
              Extract Source.


The extract is created, and its state shows as Never run.


You must run the extract to populate the target table and allow building a dataset or
        dashboard on the target table.


Related informationManaging schedule intervalsParent topic: Working with data extracts in Data Visualization