Deleting a datasetCloudera Docs
Deleting a dataset
In CDP Data Visualization, you can delete a dataset without deleting the data from the
    database.

noteDeleting a dataset deletes all dashboards and both linked and unlinked visuals that use
        it. However, it does not delete the data from the database. Any analytical views that were
        defined on the dataset remain.


On the main navigation bar, click Data.




The Data view appears, open on the Datasets tab.


Find the dataset in the list of datasets, either by scrolling or by using search.

On the row that represents the particular dataset, click the Delete
            (trash) icon to delete the dataset.

In this example, the Cereals dataset has been selected, which
            contains 1 visual.



The Delete Confirmation modal window appears.
It contains information about all related dashboards and linked and unlinked visuals
            that the system deletes with the dataset:

Snapshot with a tag indicating that the artifact is a visual or a
              dashboard
Title
ID
Related Dashboards / Visuals lists the number of related artifacts, and
              their IDs.
For visuals, this is the number and IDs of dashboards where they appear.
For dashboards, it is the number and IDs of visuals that they contain.

Created date
Last Updated time period
Modified by username



noteWhen deleting a dataset that has associated dashboards in private worksapces, these
            dashboards are not listed in the Delete confirmation modal
            window. However, a warning will appear notifying about the dashboards.


In the Delete confirmation modal window's text entry field, type
            DELETE in uppercase, and click Delete.




In the Dataset modal window, you can see the
              Cereals dataset shows 1 visuals. This
            represents linked visuals and dashboards that reference the dataset directly. When you
            delete this dataset, the total number of entries display 5. This represents all
            dashboards, linked visuals, and all other visuals that refernce this dataset.



Parent topic: Working with datasets in Data Visualization