Monitoring resources with GrafanaCloudera Docs
Monitoring resources with Grafana
Grafana is visualization and analytics software for using dashboards to monitor metrics
    data. You learn how to access pre-built Grafana dashboards to monitor Virtual Warehouses and your compute
    cluster in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). As a Cluster Operations professional, you visualize Kubernetes and Istio metrics from Grafana
    to monitor and maintain the cluster.
When you log into Grafana, the Welcome page contains links to documentation about Grafana
      basics. From the left navigation, you can get started by searching for a particular dashboard
      or hovering over the navigation icons to familiarize yourself with the UI functions. 



As a new user, to familiarize yourself with the pre-built dashboards that chart metrics about
      Hive, Impala, Hue, Druid, Kubernetes, and Istio in CDW, follow steps in this documentation. 

Grafana in CDW overviewYou connect to prebuilt dashboards to view metrics of CDW operations. Cloudera         provides prebuilt Grafana dashboards for Hive, Impala, Hue, Druid, Kubernetes, and Istio         dashboards of metrics data, charts, and other visuals. Limitations of Grafana in CDWYou need to understand the Grafana capabilities in CDW that Cloudera does not   support. Grafana in CDW is intended for use by cluster operations professionals who are familiar   with monitoring tools, interpreting metrics, and performing maintenance.  Getting started in GrafanaLearn how to log into Grafana in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud. Viewing prebuilt dashboardsYou see how to list dashboard groups, view the Hive dashboard, and see the actual     metric data on a point in the X-axis. You can follow the same steps to work with other     dashboards.Monitoring HMSYou can monitor Hive Metastore (HMS), heap usage, and key Hive metrics. Monitoring key Hive metricsYou can get metrics about the status of HiveServer.Monitoring Impala executors You can monitor Impala executors and get related metrics.Monitoring Impala catalog You can monitor Impala catalogd from Grafana.Monitoring Impala statestore You can monitor Impala statestore from Grafana.Monitoring Impala admission controlYou can monitor Impala admission control from Grafana.    Monitoring Impala coordinators You can monitor Impala coordinators caching, resource use, such as files handles         hit, memory consumption, and more.Monitoring nodes You can get Kubernetes, cluster health, and node health information by monitoring         CDW nodes.Monitoring Kubernetes Services from GrafanaYou can monitor the Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) or the Azure Kubernetes         Service (AKS) used by your CDW cluster from Grafana. Updating a dashboard graphYou can view, edit, share, explore, or remove a dashboard graph, and more.    Inspecting dashboard data and queries You can drill down into details of resource usage of Hive or Impala, get statistics         about usage, and run queries on the details.Creating a custom dashboard You can create a custom dashboard in a few steps.Meeting prerequisites to set up alertsBefore you can set up an alert triggered by a dashboard event, you must configure an         SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) server, an alert recipient, and a notification policy. Creating alertsAfter meeting prerequisites to set up alerts, you can create an alert for an existing dashboard.    Reviewing alerts and notifications 