Grafana in CDW overviewCloudera Docs
Grafana in CDW overview
You connect to prebuilt dashboards to view metrics of CDW operations. Cloudera
        provides prebuilt Grafana dashboards for Hive, Impala, Hue, Druid, Kubernetes, and Istio
        dashboards of metrics data, charts, and other visuals. 
Using Grafana, CDP metrics are centralized in a single spot, stored in the Prometheus
            database and monitored by Prometheus. Your workload databases are not involved in any
            way. You can immediately view pre-built dashboards described below. You can view
            dashboard metrics for different time periods by selecting the period of interest from
            the dropdown in the horizontal navigation: 

You can also create your own dashboards. "Get started with Grafana and Prometheus" describes how
            to create dashboards of CDP metrics. Describing all the details of how to use Grafana is
            beyond the scope of this documentation. Grafana described in this documentation is not
            the enterprise version. Hive dashboards
The Hive dashboards cover the following operations of the Hive SQL engine in CDW:
Auto-scaling
Hive metastore
HiveServer
The Hive service itself (Hive-Home)
LLAP

For example: 



Impala dashboards
The Impala dashboards include the following operations of the Impala SQL engine
                    in CDW:
Catalog server
Coordinator
Executor
Statestore
The Impala service itself


Kubernetes dashboards
You can get insight into the operations of your CDP clusters from Kubernetes
                dashboards. Kubernetes dashboards represent the following metrics:
CoreDNS: requests and duration of responses
App Metrics: number of Kubernetes pods, CPU usage relative to request or to
                        limit, memory usage sliced and diced a number of ways
Object Metrics: Deployment memory and CPU usage, in total, and by node.







Istio dashboards
To work with Cloudera Support, you might use the Istio dashboards. Istio is an open
                platform that provides microservice security, connections, and monitoring. The Istio
                Mesh dashboards cover the following views of the service mesh network of
                    microservices:
Istio Mesh summary: describes the network of microservices by HTTP/gRPC and
                        TCP workloads in the Mesh.
Individual CDP services, such as HiveServer and Impala coordinator: Request
                        and response metrics, such as latency, for each mesh service (HTTP/gRPC and
                        TCP) and client and service workloads metrics.
Individual workloads using the services: Request and response metrics for
                        each workload in the Mesh (HTTP/gRPC and TCP) and inbound/outbound workload
                        services.

The Istio performance dashboard presents visualizations of the following metrics:
CDP Usage
Memory Usage
Data Rates
Bytes transferred per second

The Istio control plane dashboard includes memory, CPU, and disk resource usage.
For example: 


The sidecar proxy metrics in Istio dashboards reveals the interceptions of network
                communication between microservices. 
The Istio Wasm Plugin extends the Istio proxy capabilities.

Nodes dashboards
The Prometheus Node Exporter is used to gather
                detailed metrics for the AWS and Azure Virtual Machines that host an environment's
                Kubernetes cluster. These metrics cover both machine and OS level metrics such as
                CPU, memory, network, processes, time synchronization, disk, and file system. All
                metric names start with node_.
Three prebuild dashboards show metrics for AWS/Azure Virtual Machines that host the
                Kubernetes cluster:
Cluster TotalsShows CPU/Memory utilization and node counts (shared
                            services/compute  for the entire cluster.
Node DetailsShows very detailed metrics for a single node at a
                        time.
Node TrendsCombines CPU, Memory, Disk, and Network metrics for all nodes
                            for node-to-node comparisons.



Parent topic: Monitoring resources with Grafana