List of required configuration parameters for the Shopify to S3/ADLS ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
List of required configuration parameters for the
      Shopify to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow
When deploying the Shopify to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow, you have to provide the following parameters. Use the
  information you collected in Prerequisites.
Table 1. Shopify to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow configuration parameters

Parameter name
Description



CDP Workload User
Specify the CDP machine user or workload username that you want to use to authenticate
       to the object stores. Ensure this user has the appropriate access rights to the object store
       locations in Ranger or IDBroker.


CDP Workload User Password
Specify the password of the CDP machine user or workload user you are using to
       authenticate against the object stores (via IDBroker).


CSV Delimiter
If your desired output data is CSV, specify the delimiter here.


Data Output Format
Specify the desired format for your output data. You can use CSV, JSON or AVRO with
       this ReadyFlow.


Destination S3 or ADLS Path
Specify the name of the destination S3 or ADLS path you want to write to. Make sure
       that the path starts with "/".


Destination S3 or ADLS Storage Location
Specify the name of the destination S3 bucket or ADLS Container you want to write
        to.For S3, enter a value in the form: s3a://[Destination S3
        Bucket]For ADLS, enter a value in the form: abfs://[Destination ADLS
         File System]@[Destination ADLS Storage Account].dfs.core.windows.net


Incremental Delay
Specify a value for this Shopify processor property to avoid missing objects when the
       clocks of your local machines and of Shopify servers are not in sync. This property is only
       used if Incremental Loading is set to true.The
        default value is 3 seconds.


Incremental Loading
Specify a value for this Shopify processor property to decide whether to load queried
       objects incrementally. Set to true to query each object exactly once. Set to
        false to query each object at least once.The default value is
         true.


Shopify Access Token
Specify the Shopify access token to authenticate requests.


Shopify Object Category
Specify the Shopify object category to request.The following values are supported:
        
CUSTOMERS
DISCOUNTS
INVENTORY
ONLINE_STORE
ORDERS
PRODUCTS
SALES_CHANNEL
STORE_PROPERTIES



Shopify Object Type

Specify the Shopify object type (subcategory) to request.
The Object Type depends on the Object Category and the following (category: types) groups
        are supported:

CUSTOMERS: customers; 
DISCOUNTS: price_rules; 
INVENTORY: locations; 
ONLINE_STORE: blogs, comments, pages, redirects, script_tags, themes; 
ORDERS: checkouts, draft_orders, orders; 
PRODUCTS: collects, custom_collections, products, custom_collections; 
SALES_CHANNEL: collection_listings, product_listings; 
STORE_PROPERTIES: countries, currencies, policies, shipping_zones;




Shopify Result Limit
Specify the maximum number of results returned by Shopify.The default value is
         100.


Shopify Store Domain
Specify the domain of the Shopify store. For example,
        nifistore.myshopify.com



Related conceptsPrerequisitesRelated informationDeploying a ReadyFlow