Connecting to Impala Virtual Warehouse from Impala shell clientCloudera Docs
Connecting to Impala Virtual Warehouse from Impala shell client
You need to provide commands to your client users for installing and launching the
    Impala shell to connect to your Impala Virtual Warehouse. Client users can then query your
    tables. You learn how to obtain the command for installing the Impala shell on a client and
    other information to provide to clients.
 To query an Impala Virtual Warehouse from the Impala Shell, clients need to connect to
      HiveServer (HS2), which is available in the same cluster as Impala. The JDBC URL for the HS2
      endpoint uses the strict HS2 protocol option to access the Impala Virtual Warehouse from the
      Impala Shell. 


Obtain the DWUser role.
You must run a Virtual Warehouse version DWX 1.1.2-b2008 or later.



In the Impala Virtual Warehouse, click Options , and select Copy Impala shell Download
            command.





The command for installing the Impala shell compatible with your Impala Virtual
          Warehouse is copied to the clipboard. The command looks something like this:
            pip install impala-shell==4.1.0a1Using this command, your
            clients update impyla to the version compatible with CDW, as listed in the Data
              Warehouse Release Notes in section, “Version mapping”. 

Click Options again, and select Copy Impala shell command.
This action copies the command that launches the Impala shell and includes the
          connection string your client needs to connect to your Virtual Warehouse. For
          example:

impala-shell --protocol='hs2-http' --ssl -i 'coordinator-vw-impala.dw-dwx-rzs556.xcu2-8y8x.dev.cldr.work:443' -u client_max -l


Provide the commands you copied to your client user.

Provide the instructions in the next topic Using the Impala Shell client to your
          client user.


Using the Impala shell clientYou obtain the commands from the Impala Virtual Warehouse owner for installing and         launching the Impala shell to connect to the Impala Virtual Warehouse. You learn how to         install and launch the Impala shell that connects to the Impala Virtual Warehouse UI. You         then query tables in the Impala Virtual Warehouse, assuming you have authentication         credentials. Windows clients are not supported.