Connect a Virtual Warehouse and Microsoft Power BI DesktopCloudera Docs
Connect a Virtual Warehouse and Microsoft Power BI Desktop
 You learn how to connect to a Hive or Impala Virtual Warehouse from Microsoft Power
        BI. You can then use Power BI to visualize the data in the Virtual Warehouse on Cloudera
        Public Cloud.

Although you configure Power BI using a Microsoft UI labeled Hive LLAP, you can use
                this procedure to connect to a Hive Virtual Warehouse or to an Impala Virtual
                Warehouse. After making the connection, you can use Power BI to create reports based
                on data in the Virtual Warehouse.
warningWe have not tested or
                certified connecting a Virtual Warehouse and Microsoft Power BI Desktop.



You have access to a CDP Environment and a Hive LLAP or Impala Virtual Warehouse
                    that contains tables of data.

You know the CDP workload user name and password you set in User Management in the
                        Management Console. You need to use your workload user name and its
                        associated password to log into the Virtual Warehouse.




Log in to the CDP web interface, navigate to the Data Warehouse service, and
                    find your Virtual Warehouse.

Click options , and select Copy JDBC
                        URL to copy the JDBC URL to your system's clipboard.






Paste the copied JDBC URL into a text file. It should look similar to the
                    following:

jdbc:hive2://<your-virtual-warehouse>.<your-environment>.<dwx.company.com>/default;transportMode=http;httpPath=cliservice;ssl=true;retries=3


From the text file where you just pasted the URL, copy the host name from the
                    JDBC URL to your clipboard. For example, in the URL shown in the step above, the
                    host name is:

<your-virtual-warehouse>.<your-environment>.<dwx.company.com>


Open Power BI Desktop, select Get Data > More .




Select Hive LLAP.

In the Hive LLAP dialog, configure Power BI to connect to the Hive or Impala
                    Virtual Warehouse in Cloudera Public Cloud as follows: 


In Server, paste the contents of your clipboard from step 4, add a colon
                            and 443.
In Database, enter the database name, for example
                                default.
In Thrift Transport Protocol, select HTTP.
In Data Connectivity mode, select
                            DirectQuery.




Click OK.


Enter your CDP workload user name and password.

Click Connect.
The PowerBI Navigator appears.

Select the tables you want to use in a report, and click
                        Load.
In Fields, the table appears and is now available as a data source for your
                    Power BI report.


