Using the Impala shell clientCloudera Docs
Using the Impala shell client
You obtain the commands from the Impala Virtual Warehouse owner for installing and
        launching the Impala shell to connect to the Impala Virtual Warehouse. You learn how to
        install and launch the Impala shell that connects to the Impala Virtual Warehouse UI. You
        then query tables in the Impala Virtual Warehouse, assuming you have authentication
        credentials. Windows clients are not supported.


You must have the latest stable version of Python 2.7.
You must obtain the pip installer compatible with the Python
                    version. 



In a terminal window, run the command provided by the Impala Virtual Warehouse
                    owner to update impyla to the version compatible with the Impala Virtual
                    Warehouse. 
For example: pip install impyla==0.18a2 
Installing/updating to impyla 0.18a2, for example, is required before
                    you install the Impala shell in the next step.

Run the Impala shell Download command provided by the Impala Virtual Warehouse
                    owner to install the Impala shell. 
The command looks something like this:
                    pip install impala-shell==4.1.0a1
The Impala shell is installed.

Run the Help command to confirm a successful installation:

impala-shell --help 


Run the provided Impala shell command to launch the Impala shell. 
The command looks something like this:
                    impala-shell --protocol='hs2-http' --ssl -i 'coordinator-vw-impala.dw-dwx-rzs556.xcu2-8y8x.dev.cldr.work:443' -u client_max -l
The Impala shell is launched and you connect to the Impala Virtual
                    Warehouse.

Run a SQL command to confirm that you are connected to the Impala Virtual
                    Warehouse instance.

SHOW DATABASES;
The query returns a list of databases in the Impala Virtual Warehouse.



Parent topic: Connecting to Impala Virtual Warehouse from Impala shell client