Using Inbound Connections with an external load balancerCloudera Docs
Using Inbound Connections with an external load balancer
Once a dataflow deployment with an Inbound Connection Endpoint is available, you can go
  on and connect an external load balancer to start sending data. 
Inbound Connection Endpoints are created in CDF with an internal Layer 4 (L4) load
   balancer (LB). Nevertheless, it is also possible to use your own native Layer 7 (L7) LB
   (Application Gateway on Azure, Application Load Balancer on AWS, respectively) in front of the
   Cloudera managed L4 LB. 
Cloudera recommends achieving this by configuring your L7 LB to use the DataFlow
   deployment LB as a backend. Enabling TLS between your LB and the DataFlow LB is recommended, but
   mTLS is not possible for the backend connection. This means that your Listen Processor (e.g.,
   ListenHTTP) in your NiFi flow cannot be configured with Client Auth = Required
   when using an external LB as a gateway. . 
You may configure the listening side of your LB and routing rules according to the
   requirements of your organization.
Alternatively, you may be required to use a L4 LB provided by your organization in
   front of the Cloudera managed LB. This is also possible, although Cloudera recommends directly
   using the CDP managed L4 LB when possible.



Typically, when using an external load balancer to act as a gateway, the internal managed load
   balancer should stay private. This can be accomplished by deselecting the “Use Public Endpoint”
   option when enabling DataFlow for your environment, which limits DataFlow to only use private
   subnets for all resources. If public access is needed, that would be done by exposing private
   resources via the external gateway load balancer.
Configuration workflow
Currently, an Inbound Connection Endpoint can only be created during flow deployment, and
    cannot be reassigned without terminating the flow deployment for which it was created.
To configure an external load balancer, you need to go through the following steps: 

Design a flow to accept inbound connections.


If the flow will be used with a Layer 7 LB, a compatible Layer 7 processor (such
        as ListenHTTP or HandleHttpRequest) must be used.


Decide if TLS will be used between your LB and your flow deployment


Cloudera recommends enabling TLS, which is done by configuring your listen
          processor to use an SSL Context Service named Inbound SSL Context
           Service. CDF will manage the certificates for this context service when
          deployed. mTLS between cloud native load balancers is generally not supported, so unless
          you know that your Gateway LB supports client certificates and mTLS for the backend
          connection, it is recommended to configure the Client Auth property for
          your Listen processor to something other than REQUIRED (that is, use
           NONE, AUTO, or WANT)


If you will terminate TLS at your Gateway LB, you can optionally choose to use
          an unencrypted connection on the backend, which you can do by configuring your listen
          processor with no SSL Context Service.




Upload the flow to your CDF-PC Flow Catalog.Create a flow deployment, with an Inbound Connection Endpoint.noteIf
      you have an existing endpoint left over after terminating a previous flow deployment, you can
      reuse it within the same environment.Download the client certificate and client key, note down the Endpoint Host
      Name, port number and protocol from the flow deployment where you want to send
     data using the external LB.


Once the deployment has been created successfully,
                                        select it in the Dashboard and click
                                            Manage Deployment.


In the Deployment Settings
                                        section, navigate to the NiFi
                                            Configuration tab to find information about
                                        the associated inbound connection endpoint.


Copy the endpoint hostname and port and download
                                        the certificate and private key.


notePorts are flow-specific, all the other attributes are specific
      to the individual endpoint host.Create a Layer 7 Load Balancer in your environment and configure its backend using the
     endpoint information obtained from the flow deployment.


Configure an Application Gateway in AzureLearn about the settings required to set up an Azure Application Gateway to communicate   with an Inbound Connection Endpoint.