Hardware and storageCloudera Docs
Hardware and storage
The "Hardware and storage" options allow you to customize the cloud provider specific
  cluster hardware and storage options.
The Hardware and Storage options can be selected for each host group. To edit this
   section for a specific host group, click on the . When done editing, click on the  to save the changes. Repeat for these steps for all host groups that
   you would like to edit. 
The following hardware and storage settings are available:


Parameter
Description



Cloudera Manager Server
You must select one node for Cloudera Manager Server by clicking the  button. The “Instance Count” for
       that host group must be set to “1”. If you are using one of the default cluster templates, this is
       set by default.


Instance Type

Select an instance type. For information
                about instance types on GCP refer to Virtual Machine instances in GCP
                documentation.



Instance Count
Enter the number of instances of a given type. Default is 1.


Storage Type

Select the volume type. The options are:
                Standard persistent disks (HDD), solid-state persistent disks (SSD), or local
                scratch disk (SSD). For more information about these options refer to Storage options in GCP documentation.noteStopping
                and restarting Data Hub clusters using ephemeral storage is not supported.
              


Attached Volumes Per Instance
Enter the number of volumes attached per instance. Default is 1.


Volume Size
Enter the size in GB for each volume. Default is 100.


Root Volume Size
This option allows you to increase or decrease the
                root volume size. Default is 100 GB. This option is useful if your custom image
                requires more space than the default 100 GB. If you use a custom Data Hub template
                specifying a root volume size smaller than 100GB, you may encounter an error.



Encryption
By default, Compute Engine encrypts customer content at rest but you can use
              Customer-Supplied Encryption Key or Cloud KMS Key to encrypt your data. Read more
              about Customer-Supplied Encryption Key encryption here or Cloud KMS Key encryption here.



Parent topic: Advanced cluster options