Starting a test sessionCloudera Docs
Starting a test session
To validate your draft flow, start a test session, provisioning a NiFi
        cluster.


Make sure that you have DFDeveloper permission to perform this task. For
                    information on account and resource roles, see DataFlow
                    Authorization.
You have created a draft in CDF Flow Designer.



Select Flow Options > Test Session.


Add Custom NAR Configuration if your flow
                            requires custom processors that you have built. 
Select Inbound Connections > Allow NiFi to receive data if your your draft uses listen processors with inbound
                            connection endpoint support.The deployment wizard auto synchronizes
                                port information with the configuration settings you made for your
                                listen processor(s).



noteYou can also change NiFi version but, unless you
                        have a specific reason to select an earlier one, Cloudera recommends using
                        the latest version.


Click Start Test Session.
Test Session status changes to  Initializing Test Session...


Wait for the status to change to  Active Test Session.

Click Flow Options > Services to enable Services.

Select a service you want to enable, then click  Enable. 
Repeat this step for all Services.tipYou
                        can also select Enable Service and Referencing
                            Components. It will not only enable the controller service,
                        but also any component that references it. This way, you do not need to
                        enable the component separately to run the test session.

Click Back To Flow Designer to return to the flow design
                        Canvas.

Start all processors that are not running (you see a  Stopped symbol next to the
                    processor name) by selecting the processor on the Canvas
                    then clicking  Start.

The flow starts executing. On the Flow Design
                Canvas you can observe statistics on your processors change
            as they consume data and execute their respective tasks. You can also observe one or
            more blue Notification Pill, providing information about the
            current task. Potential issues that need to be addressed are called out in an orange
                     Notification Pill on the individual
            processors.

