Configure non-transparent proxies for Cloudera Data Warehouse on AWS environmentsCloudera Docs
Configure non-transparent proxies for Cloudera Data Warehouse on AWS environments
You can configure an AWS environment to use non-transparent proxy connections when
      activating environments for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW).
    

This task explains how to configure non-transparent proxies when you activate AWS
              environments for CDW.
Required role: DWAdmin




Before you can configure non-transparent proxies during environment activation for
              CDW, you must make sure that a proxy was configured for the environment when it was
              registered with Management Console. For details about configuring a proxy when
              registering an environment with Management Console, see Using a non-transparent proxy.
noteWhen you activate an environment to use with CDW, the option to configure
                non-transparent proxies is only available if you have added a proxy during
                environment registration with Management Console.


Before activating the environment that uses a proxy for CDW, set up the following
                VPC endpoints for your AWS account in the AWS Console:

sts.amazonaws.com
sts.<region>.amazonaws.com
.s3.<region>.amazonaws.com
.s3.amazonaws.com
s3.amazonaws.com
dynamodb.<region>.amazonaws.com
api.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com
dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com
ec2.<region>.amazonaws.com
cloudformation.<region>.amazonaws.com
autoscaling.<region>.amazonaws.com
elasticfilesystem.<region>.amazonaws.com
elasticloadbalancing.<region>.amazonaws.com

For information about creating VPC endpoints, see the Amazon documentation. If you cannot create a VPC
            endpoint for one of the required outbound destinations that are listed here, you must
            delete it from the Bypass proxy settings for these domains text
            box in Step 5 below, and add it to the proxy allowlist.


Add other AWS specific outbound destinations to your proxy allowlist because
            creating VPC endpoints for them is not supported by AWS:

eks.<region>.amazonaws.com
rds.<region>.amazonaws.com
servicequotas.<region>.amazonaws.com
pricing.<region>.amazonaws.com

For more information about the AWS specific outbound destinations used by CDP,
                  see Outbound network access destinations for AWS in
                  the Management Console documentation.




In the CDW service, expand the Environments column by
                  clicking the More… menu on the left side of the page.

In the Environments column, click the search icon and locate
            the environment you configured a non-transparent proxy for when you registered it with
            Management Console.

When you locate the environment, click the activation icon to launch the
              Activation Settings dialog box where you can configure
            non-transparent proxies for the environment.

In the Activation Settings dialog box, click
              Advanced Settings to expand the dialog box options.

In the expanded dialog box, select Use default environment
              Proxy. When you select this option, the Bypass proxy settings
                for these domains option appears, and a text box listing all
              destinations that by-pass this proxy also appears. These are the destinations that you
              created VPC endpoints for in the above Before
              you begin section.

importantIf you cannot create a VPC endpoint for one of the required
                outbound destinations that are listed in the "Before you begin" section, you must
                delete it from the Bypass proxy settings for these domains
                text box by clicking the "x" that is adjacent to it, and then add it to the proxy
                allowlist.


Click Activate to complete environment activation for CDW.


Parent topic: Use a non-transparent proxy with Cloudera Data Warehouse on AWS environments