Adding Cloudera Data Warehouse cluster access to S3 buckets in the same AWS accountCloudera Docs
Adding Cloudera Data Warehouse cluster access to S3 buckets in the same AWS account
In certain scenarios, you might need to interact with data that resides outside of the
    data lake S3 buckets. You can add a bucket to S3, and then, using Hue define external tables
    based on the data, such as a CSV file, you put into the bucket. 
 In this task, you see how to add an S3 bucket to create an external table based on CSV data using Hue.
      You need to add read/write access to the external S3 bucket before creating the table.  From
      the command line of your cluster, you can run HDFS CLI commands on the S3 bucket. You can also
      use the S3 bucket for uploading a UDF jar for registration, and then include
      UDFs in queries from your cluster. noteThis topic might describe versions of the AWS console
        that have changed over time.



The S3 bucket you add to hold the data outside your Data Lake must be in the same AWS
            account as your Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service cluster. 

Required role: DWAdmin


In this task, first you get the cluster ID from the Environments tile in the CDW
      service UI. 

Next, you edit the AWS instance profile. 

In the AWS Console, navigate to AWS Management
          Console > CloudFormation and locate
          the corresponding stack using the cluster ID you obtained from the CDW
          Environments tile, and click on its name. The CloudFormation stack name is based
          on the form: <cluster-ID>-dwx-stack. For
          example, in the above image, the cluster ID is env-6cwwgg so the
          CloudFormation stack name for this cluster is
          env-6cwwgg-dwx-stack.

In the CloudFormation stack details page, click the
          Resources tab, locate the
          NodeInstanceRole in the Logical ID column, and then click the
          adjacent hyperlink in the Physical ID column:




This launches the Identity and Access Management (IAM) console.


In the IAM console, locate the s3-read-write-own-buckets
          policy. Click Show…More if you do not see it.

Expand s3-read-write-own-buckets, and then click
            Edit:






In the Edit s3-read-write-own-buckets editor page, click the
            JSON tab and append information about the bucket you added in the
          "Resource" section of the JSON file. For example, if you wanted to add access to the
            more-sales-data  bucket, you append it at the end of the "Resource"
          section, as shown in the last two resource names :

"Resource":[
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-managed",
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-managed/*",
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-external",
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-external/*",
    "arn:aws:s3:::more-sales-data",
    "arn:aws:s3:::more-sales-data/*"
 ],
importantThere is no comma after the last line of the "Resource"
            section.


Click Review policy  in the lower right corner of the page,
          and then click Save changes. You can access the new bucket from
          your CDW service cluster now. For example, you can create external Hive tables that
          point to the newly added bucket.
You can now access a bucket outside your data lake from Hue in your CDW service
          cluster. For example, you can create external Hive tables that point to the newly added
          bucket, and join those external tables with tables already in your data lake. Furthermore,
          you can govern CDW user access to this external S3 bucket via Ranger Hadoop SQL Policies. 


Parent topic: Adding access to external S3 buckets for Cloudera Data Warehouse clusters on AWS