Prerequisites for private networking in AWS environmentsCloudera Docs
Prerequisites for private networking in AWS environments
This topic lists the prerequisite requirements for configuring Cloudera Data Warehouse
   (CDW) to use private networks on AWS.
To use the AWS private networking feature in the CDW service, make sure
     you set up gateway virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoints and that you
     specify the correct number of public and private subnets for the CDP
     environment you plan to use for the service.
Set up gateway VPC endpoints to improve performance
For the Public Load Balancer/Private Worker Nodes and the Private Load
          Balancer/Private Worker Nodes deployment modes where worker nodes are running in
        private subnets, all outbound internet traffic passes through network address translation
        (NAT) gateways. For example, traffic created by activities such as downloading Docker images
        or accessing Cloudera services like billing or metering, S3 storage, and Amazon DynamoDB. To
        improve performance by reducing the number of network hops for accessing S3 and DynamoDB,
        set gateway VPC endpoints. A gateway endpoint is a gateway that you specify as a target for
        a route in your route table for traffic that is destined to either Amazon S3 or DynamoDB,
        the two supported AWS services.
If your VPC does not contain VPC endpoints that target S3 or DynamoDB, use the Amazon
      documentation, which is linked to at the bottom of the page, to set them up.

Specify the correct number of public and private subnets for your CDP environment
Depending on which deployment mode you choose, select the correct number of private and
       public subnets in the VPC environment that you register with the Management Console in CDP.
       Check the documentation on Supported deployment modes to make sure what
       combination of public and private VPC subnets are needed before you register your
       environment.
noteIf you can only use private subnets in your AWS VPC environment, you can
       specify three private subnets when you register the environment with
       Management Console. However, if you set up private networking with a CDP
        environment that includes three private subnets and no public subnets, network
        administrators must make sure there is outbound internet access from private subnets by way
        of the transit gateway or by another means.
General instructions for registering an environment are included in the Management Console
       documentation. A link to this documentation is provided below. When you are on Step 6 where
       you specify information on the Region, Networking, Security and
         Storage page of Management Console, specify the appropriate number of public or
       private subnets in your VPC for the Select Subnets prompt on the page:



Then proceed through the instructions to complete registering your environment with CDP.


Related informationEndpoints for Amazon S3Endpoints for Amazon DynamoDBRegister an AWS environment with Management           ConsoleParent topic: Setting up private networking in AWS environments