Accessing a bucket in a different AWS account under RAZCloudera Docs
Accessing a bucket in a different AWS account under RAZ
In a Ranger Authorized (RAZ) environment, to access an S3 external bucket in a
        different AWS account from the CDW cluster, you must configure the bucket policy of the
        other account. You use the AWS Management Console to do this.

For information about bucket policies, see Adding a bucket policy by using the Amazon S3 console in the AWS documentation. 

You must meet the prerequisites mentioned in the topic
                above.

Add the ARN of the external bucket to the "Resource" array of values in the
                  JSON file for the
                  aws-cdp-datalake-admin-s3-policy.
For example, the values in the Resource array give the CDW cluster access to
                  external bucket MY_EXTERNAL_BUCKET.



Get the cluster ID from the Environments tile in the CDW service UI. 
For example:


You use this cluster ID later.

In the AWS Console, navigate to AWS Management Console > S3, locate the bucket in the other AWS account you added, and then click the bucket name.
              

In the bucket details page, click Permissions, and then click Bucket Policy.
              

In Bucket Policy, in the Bucket policy editor, add the
                    CDW cluster Id and the permissions you want the CDW service account to have to
                    this bucket.



This example policy includes the following specifications: 


This first section includes the Sid, which is an
                                optional identifier indicating what the policy does. The
                                    Effect specifies that this policy is allowing
                                the Principal to do what is listed below in the
                                    Action section. The Principal
                                is where you specify the ARN of the instance role for your CDW
                                cluster account.
tipTo get the ARN of your CDW cluster
                                account:Follow steps 6-8 below, then specify the ARM for the
                                    Principal in the bucket policy.

The Action section specifies what actions the
                                Principal can perform.
The Resource section specifies the S3 bucket you added that your CDW
                            cluster will access.



Navigate to AWS Management Console > CloudFormation and locate the stack
                    corresponding to the cluster ID.

Click the CloudFormation stack name. 
                  This stack name is the one in this format: <cluster-ID>-dwx-stack. For example, if the cluster ID is env-6cwwgg, the CloudFormation stack name for this cluster is env-6cwwgg-dwx-stack.
              
In CloudFormation stack details, in Resources, the NodeInstanceRole appears in
                    the Logical ID column.



Click the hyperlink just to the right of it.  
At the top of the Summary page, the Role ARN is listed.

Specify the ARN for the Principal in the bucket policy.

Click Save.


Parent topic: Accessing buckets in a RAZ environment