Adding Cloudera Data Warehouse cluster access to external S3 buckets in a different AWS accountCloudera Docs
Adding Cloudera Data Warehouse cluster access to external S3 buckets in a different AWS
    account
You might need to know how to add read/write access to S3 buckets under AWS accounts
    that are different from the account for the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service cluster. 

To add CDW service cluster access to a bucket you add to S3 under a different AWS account,
        you must configure the bucket in the different account to access the CDW cluster account.
        Then, you can configure the CDW service account to access the bucket you added. You perform
        both of these tasks in the AWS Management Console.
Required role: DWAdmin
noteThis topic might use both "new" and "old" versions of the AWS console.


To configure access to external S3 buckets for your CDW cluster, you must edit the AWS instance profile. Before you edit the instance
        profile, get the cluster ID from the Environments tile in the CDW service UI:



You use this cluster ID in Step 5 below.


In the AWS Console, navigate to AWS Management Console > S3, locate the bucket in the other AWS account you added, and then click the
          bucket name.

In the bucket details page, click the Permissions tab, and
          then click the Bucket Policy sub-tab.

In the Bucket Policy sub-tab page, in the Bucket policy
          editor, add the CDW cluster Id and what permissions you want the CDW
          service account to have for this bucket:




This example policy includes the following specifications:


tipTo get the ARN of your CDW cluster account: In the AWS
                Console, navigate to CloudFormation and locate the stack
                for your CDW cluster. Click the stack name. In the stack details page, click the
                Resources tab. In the Resources table, scroll down to the
                NodeInstanceRole, and then click the hyperlink just to
                the right of it. At the top of the Summary page, the Role
                  ARN is listed. This is the ARN you must specify for the
                Principal in the bucket policy.

The Action section specifies what actions the
                Principal can perform.
The Resource section specifies the S3 bucket you added and want
              your CDW cluster to be able to access.

For details about bucket policies, see Managing Access to Amazon S3 Buckets Using Bucket
            Policies in the AWS documentation.


Click Save.

Still in the AWS Console, navigate to AWS Management
          Console > CloudFormation and locate the
          corresponding stack using the cluster ID you obtained from the CDW Environments tile
          in the "Before you begin" section above. Click on the CloudFormation stack name. This
          stack name is based on the form:
          <cluster-ID>-dwx-stack. For example, if the
          cluster ID is env-6cwwgg, the CloudFormation stack name for this
          cluster is env-6cwwgg-dwx-stack.

In the CloudFormation stack details page, click the
          Resources tab, locate the
          NodeInstanceRole in the Logical ID column, and then click the
          adjacent hyperlink in the Physical ID column:




This launches the Identity and Access Management (IAM) console.


In the IAM console, locate the s3-read-write-own-buckets
          policy. Click Show…More if you do not see it.

Expand the row for the s3-read-write-own-buckets policy by
          clicking the triangle icon to the left of the policy, and then click Edit
            Policy:






In the Edit s3-read-write-own-buckets editor page, click the
            JSON tab and append ARN information about the additional external
          bucket in the "Resource" section of the JSON file. For example, if you want to add access
          to the dwx-env-cx57qr bucket, you append it at the end of the "Resource"
          section as shown in the following example:

"Resource":[ 
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-managed",
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-managed/*",
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-external",
    "arn:aws:s3:::cdw-sales-hj9s-dwx-external/*",
    "arn:aws:s3:::dwx-env-cx57qr",
    "arn:aws:s3:::dwx-env-cx57q/*"
],
importantThere is no comma after the last line of the "Resource"
            section.


Click Review policy in the lower right corner of the page,
          and then click Save changes. You can access the new bucket from
          your CDW service cluster now. For example, you can create external Hive tables that
          point to the newly added bucket.


Parent topic: Adding access to external S3 buckets for Cloudera Data Warehouse clusters on AWS