Setting up cloud resources for reduced permissions modeCloudera Docs
Setting up cloud resources for reduced permissions mode
Learn how to activate environments on AWS using the reduced
      permissions mode in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). In this mode, you must
      manually create and delete the CloudFormation stack in the AWS Console.
    

Required role: EnvironmentAdmin or PowerUser
When you activate an AWS environment for CDW, if you do not have the standard
              required IAM permissions, the following message displays in the environment tile of
              the CDW UI, which provides a link to the AWS Console:
Click the link and perform the following listed steps to navigate
to the AWS Console and create the CloudFormation stack.



Because you need to use the AWS Console to manually create your CloudFormation
                stack for CDW environment activation, in another browser tab, log into your AWS
                account before you begin. Make sure that the IAM entity logged in has all the
                permissions listed in "Standard required IAM permissions," which is linked to at the
              bottom of this page.
You must also have the AWS CLI and the kubectl CLI configured and
                available on your system to apply the kubeconfig that CDW provides in Step 10 below.

important

Make sure you have the time to complete the task of creating your CloudFormation
                stack in reduced permissions mode in one sitting. This can take up to 20 minutes.
                Otherwise, if the creation process outlined below is delayed in the AWS Console for
                more than an hour, the CDW environment activation times out and the environment will
              go into an error state.
Make sure that the IAM entity you use to log into the AWS Console has adequate
                permissions to create CloudFormation stacks and to run kubectl
                commands on your AWS environment.
Make note of the name of the IAM entity you use because you must use it to log in
                using a terminal window again in Step 10c. of the following procedure.




In the CDW UI Overview page, expand the
                  Environments column by clicking the
                  More… menu.

In the Environments column, click the search icon to locate
              the environment you want to activate, and click the activation icon.

If the system detects that you do not have the standard required IAM permissions on
            your AWS account for automatic CloudFormation stack creation by CDW, it displays the
            following message in the tile:

Step 1 of 2: Insufficient permissions! Visit AWS Console to Create Stack
and come back. Creating a stack will take up to 15 minutes.
This message asks you to navigate to the AWS Console to manually create the
                CloudFormation stack.


Click the link Visit AWS Console to Create Stack and the AWS
            Console opens on the CloudFormation > Stacks > Create
                Stack page that is pre-populated with a template in another browser tab.

In the Create Stack page, click Next
              to advance to the Specify stack details page.

importantDo not change any configurations on the Specify
                stack details page, including the Stack Name.


In the Specify stack details page, click
              Next to advance to the Configure stack
                options page where you can specify the required tags for your stack
              resources. See "Required tags for CloudFormation stacks," which is linked to at the
              bottom of this page for a list of required tags.

After adding the required tags, do not set the remaining options on the page.
              Scroll down to the bottom of the page and click Next to advance
            to the Review <env-stack-name> page.

On the Review <env-stack-name>
              page, scroll down to the bottom, click the I acknowledge that AWS
                CloudFormation might create IAM resources check box, and then click
              Create Stack.

noteStack creation can take up to 20 minutes depending on network traffic and load.
                The CDW UI monitors AWS stack creation and displays a "Creating" message in the
                environment tile.


After stack creation has completed, a message displays in the
              CDW UI environment tile. Click the Open Configurations
               link and a Configurations dialog box displays.

In the Configurations dialog box, perform the following
              steps:


Copy the Kubeconfig text to your system clipboard and
                  save it into a text file on your system.
Copy the Aws Auth text to your system clipboard and save
                  it into a text file on your system. The Aws Auth text provides the IAM
                  cross-account role that is registered in CDP to access the EKS cluster on AWS
                  after you perform the kubectl command in the next step.
In a terminal window, verify that the AWS CLI is configured to use the same IAM
              entity that you used to create the CloudFormation stack in Step 8. Then, using the
                kubectl CLI, run the following commands to apply configurations
              from the two text files that you created in Step 10b: $> export KUBECONFIG=<path-to-the-Kubeconfig-text-file>
$> kubectl apply -f <path-to-the-Aws-Auth-text-file>


Look for shell output "configmap/aws-auth created" to confirm the configuration was
            applied correctly.
If you deployed the CloudFormation stack with a federated user using the AWS
            console, you need to execute the commands mentioned in 10c (above) in the AWS
            CloudShell. You might need to manually install the kubectl command in the
            CloudShell.


Back in the CDW UI Configurations dialog box, select
              Yes, Kubeconfig and AWS Auth configuration are applied
              checkbox, and then click Finish Activation.

After clicking Finish Activation, the environment is
          activated and the tile displays a starting message.
        

Parent topic: Activating your environment in reduced permissions mode