Activating your environment in reduced permissions modeCloudera Docs
Activating your environment in reduced permissions mode
IAM permissions are required by Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) for environment
    activation. You can choose to provide a reduced set of IAM permissions for environment
    activation instead of the full set in the AWS restricted permissions policy.

You can activate an AWS environment for CDW with fewer than half the set of required IAM
        permissions on your AWS cross-account IAM role. You can choose reduced permissions mode in
        two ways: 
Select the Use reduced permissions mode when you activate your
          environment from CDW. 
Alternatively, let the system detect your account does not have the AWS restricted permissions policy.The following
            dialog appears. You can select Check to activate environment with reduced
              permissions mode. 



In this task, you activate your environment from CDW in reduced permissions mode. In steps 6
        and 7, you manually create the stack and then remove it:


In the Data Warehouse service, in Environments, click the search
          icon and locate the environment that you want to activate.

Activate the environment.




In Activation Settings, if you do not have the standard set of
          required IAM permissions or a restricted policy in place, select Use Reduced
            Permissions Mode. 
For example:


 Alternatively, if Environment Validations appears, select Check to
            activate environment with reduced permissions mode.  Skip the next step and
          go to step 6.

If you do not want to activate the environment in reduced permissions mode, uncheck the
          option, and click Activate. Skip the rest of the steps in this
          procedure. CDW automatically creates the cloud resources in your AWS account for you.
        

Manually create the cloud resources in your AWS account and tag them appropriately, as
          described in topic, "Setting up cloud resources for reduced permissions mode" below.
CDW pre-populates the required CloudFormation template for you within the AWS console,
          and you perform the manual steps to create the stack.

When you are finished using the stack, manually delete it in the AWS console.


Related informationMinimum set of IAM permissions required for reduced permissions modeMinimum set of IAM permissions required for reduced permissions modeReview a list of the minimum IAM permissions required to activate    AWS environments for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) in reduced permissions mode.Reduced permissions mode JSON IAM permissions policy templateTo activate an AWS environment for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW)     using reduced permissions mode, you can use this sample JSON template when you     register an environment in CDP.Required tags for CloudFormation stacks created with reduced permissions modeThis is a list of tags you must manually apply to AWS CloudFormation    stack resources when you use the reduced permissions mode to activate environments    for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW).Setting up cloud resources for reduced permissions modeLearn how to activate environments on AWS using the reduced       permissions mode in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW). In this mode, you must       manually create and delete the CloudFormation stack in the AWS Console.     Deactivating AWS environments created with reduced permissions modeLearn how to deactivate an environment that has been activated for use in Cloudera       Data Warehouse (CDW) with the reduced permissions mode. When you deactivate an environment in       CDW, the environment registered with CDP remains available for use by other applications.     Parent topic: Activating an AWS environment from CDW