Activating an AWS environment from CDWCloudera Docs
Activating an AWS environment from CDW
To use an AWS environment for Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud you must first
    activate it.

      When you activate an environment, CDP creates an EKS cluster to host Kubernetes-based
      resources. The underlying compute, network resources are managed by AWS:
Resource group
Compute instances, which are virtual machine scale sets
Load balancer(s)
Public IP address(es)
Network security group
Disk(s)

CDW supports the EC2 instances as cluster nodes. CDP supports the following AWS compute
        instance types (Hive and Impala executors), which you select during environment activation:
          Table 1. Compute Instance Types

Instance type
Processor 
Usage



r5d.4xlarge
Intel
Compute (default)


r5ad.4xlarge
AMD
Compute


r5dn.4xlarge
Intel
Compute


m5.2xlarge
Intel
Shared services

Instances are added to the cluster as needed for shared services (always on
        components). The CDW service will initially activate 3 shared m5.2xlarge instances to run
        the service in your environment. Additionally, CDW will activate 1 db.r5.large Amazon RDS
        instance using Postgres to manage Hue and Data Visualization user metadata.Three shared
        nodes are db.r5.large using Postgres, for the Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS).
        These shared nodes are used for Hue and Data Visualization user metadata. For more
        information, see Always active, shared
      services.


Obtain the DWAdmin role.
Review the AWS environment requirements.



In the CDW service, in Environments, locate the environment that
          you want to activate.

Click Activate.

In Activate Environment, select the Compute Instance type and
          Additional Compute Instance Types based on your workload, or accept the defaults:






In Deployment Mode, select load balancers.
For more information, see Load balancers for AWS environments.

To view or configure the public and private subnets that have been specified for your
            CDP environment, click Advanced Settings.
Private Subnets: Accept the selected subnets you configured during AWS environment registration for load
                balancer and workload pods, or deselect subnets. Cloudera recommends three subnets
                for each load balancer to enable high availability (HA).
Enable IP CIDR for Kubernetes cluster: Enter the IP
                Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDRs) from which the Kubernetes cluster should
                accept incoming connections. Connections from other IP ranges are dropped. Obtain
                your internal network's IP CIDR ranges of IP addresses that need access to endpoints
                on the Kubernetes cluster. For more information, see Restricting access to endpoints in AWS.
Enable IP CIDRs for the load balancer: Enter the IP CIDR(s)
                from which the load balancer should accept incoming connections. Connections from
                other IP ranges are dropped. Obtain your internal network's IP CIDR ranges of IP
                addresses that need access to endpoints that are load balanced. For more
                information, see Restricting access to endpoints in AWS.
Use Overlay Network: Overlay Networks for AWS environments can
                increase the number of available IP addresses for your deployments of CDW if you
                have an existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC). Use this feature if your VPC subnet
                has fewer than 1,024 IP addresses. Cloudera recommends that you do not configure
                more than 200 executor nodes for an overlay network to operate.
Attach Managed Policy ARN to Node Role: If you do not want
                to provide PutRolePolicy permission in your cross account role, you can attach a managed policy ARN to a node role
                to provide the cross account role permissions. You must create a new
                NodeInstanceRole manually, and provide the ARN during activation of the environment
                from CDW.
Use Reduced Permissions Mode: If you cannot provide the
                standard set of IAM permissions required by CDW for environment activation, you can
                  use reduced permissions mode to activate an
                AWS environment with fewer than half of these permissions. To use this feature, a
                  minimum set of IAM permissions are
                required.
Enable CloudWatch Logs: Enable CloudWatch logs if you use
                Amazon CloudWatch. In your AWS account, you can then find the logs in
                /aws/eks/<cluster name>/cluster. Before enabling CloudWatch, you must add required permissions to your IAM policy
                to access CloudWatch logs; otherwise, you cannot activate the environment.



Click Activate.


Related informationSupported deployment modesSetting up private networkingRestricting access to endpointsOverlay networks for AWS environmentsAWS restricted policyAs Administrator, to enable the Cloudera Data Warehouse service your IAM role must       include two policies that restrict access to the environment. You must include this policies       before you activate the environment in Cloudera Data Warehouse to make the service available       to users. Attaching a managed policy ARN For security reasons, if you do not want to provide PutRolePolicy permission         in your cross account role, which would be used later to add an inline policy to the Node         instance role, you must create a managed policy. Failure to do so results in an         authorization error. You learn how to create the managed policy in a few steps.Activating your environment in reduced permissions modeIAM permissions are required by Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) for environment     activation. You can choose to provide a reduced set of IAM permissions for environment     activation instead of the full set in the AWS restricted permissions policy.Retaining PostgreSQL backups in AWS environmentsWhen you create a Cloudera Data Warehouse cluster using the CDP CLI create-cluster         command, any PostgreSQL backup retention period you set on your Cloud Provider side, is         observed by CDP.  