Deactivating AWS environments created with reduced permissions modeCloudera Docs
Deactivating AWS environments created with reduced permissions mode
Learn how to deactivate an environment that has been activated for use in Cloudera
      Data Warehouse (CDW) with the reduced permissions mode. When you deactivate an environment in
      CDW, the environment registered with CDP remains available for use by other applications.
    

Required role: EnvironmentAdmin or PowerUser
If a CDP environment has been activated for CDW with the reduced permissions mode,
              then if you deactivate the environment in the CDW UI, you must manually delete the
              CloudFormation stack in AWS and its associated S3 buckets and DynamoDB table. After you
              click the deactivation icon in the CDW environment tile, a link displays in the tile
              that you can use to navigate to the AWS Console to delete these cloud resources.


In the CDW UI, navigate to the tile for the environment you want to deactivate,
                and click the deactivation icon (), which launches the Action
                  dialog box.

(Optional) In the Action dialog box, you can select one of
              the following environment deactivation options if appropriate:


Choose Drop Data if you want to drop any data CDW created
                outside of the Data Lake, but retain the Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses
                that are associated with the environment.
Choose Force Delete if you want to drop the data and also
                remove the Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses that are associated with the
                environment.



Click Visit AWS Console to Delete Stack, which displays in
              the Action dialog box. This opens the AWS Console in another
              browser tab.

In the Action dialog box of the CDW UI, click
              OK, and then wait five minutes so CDW can perform its deletion
              steps.

After waiting five minutes, in the AWS Console, click Delete
            to delete the CloudFormation stack in your AWS account.

In the AWS Console, perform the following tasks:



                  Navigate to the S3 service and delete the following S3 buckets that were used by
                    the stack:
                
<s3-bucket-name>-<last-4-digits-of-environment-ID>-dwx-managed
<s3-bucket-name>-<last-4-digits-of-environment-ID>-dwx-external

                  For example, if the bucket name is sales-east and the CDW
                  environment ID is ENV-CK8988, the buckets you should delete are:
                  sales-east-8988-dwx-managed
sales-east-8988-dwx-external

Navigate to the DynamoDB service and delete the associated DynamoDB table.



After performing these steps, the resources in your Amazon account for the
          deactivated CDW environment have been deleted.
        

Parent topic: Activating your environment in reduced permissions mode