Granting remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Amazon EKSCloudera Docs
Granting remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Amazon EKS
This topic describes how you can grant users access to Cloudera
      Data Warehouse (CDW) service Kubernetes clusters on Amazon EKS.
    

To grant remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Amazon EKS, add the Amazon Resource Name
          identifiers (ARNs) to the list of trusted users.
Required role: DWAdmin



You must activate an environment before you can grant users access to the
                Kubernetes cluster.

Contact your AWS account administrator or the user who is requesting access to
                  the Kubernetes cluster on AWS to get the ARN identifier for their Amazon account:

Using the Amazon Management Console


On the Amazon Management Console home page, enter IAM
                      in Find Services, and then select
                        IAM in the search results.


On the Identity and Access Management home page, in the left navigation
                        menu, select Users.


On the User page, locate the user and click or tap their User
                        name.


On the Summary page for the user, their User ARN is
                        listed at the top. Copy it to paste into the Data Warehouse service UI in
                        Step 4 below.



Using the AWS CLI
As an alternative to copying the User ARN from the AWS Management Console, you
                  can also ask the user who is requesting access to enter the following command in the AWS
                  CLI:
aws sts get-caller-identity
This command evokes the AWS Security Token Service (sts) and returns the following type of information on the requesting user:
#Sample output
{
"UserId": "ABCDE12345FGHIJKLMNO6789",
"Account": "888888888888",
"Arn": "arn:aws:iam::888888888888:user/<username>"
}
A link to the Amazon documentation on this command is available at the bottom of
                this page.




In the Data Warehouse service, expand the Environments column by clicking the
                  More… menu on the left side of the page.

In the Environments column, click the search icon and locate
            the environment for which you want to grant access to ARNs.

In the environment tile, click the options menu and select
              Show Kubeconfig.

A dialog opens where you can enter the ARN identifier:






Click Grant Access to save your changes and click
              Hide to close the dialog box.


Related informationActivating environmentsAmazon documentation on the AWS CLI command 'aws           sts get-caller-identity'Revoking remote access to Kubernetes clusters on Amazon EKsThis topic describes how to revoke remote access to Kubernetes clusters for Cloudera       Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud.Parent topic: Remote access