Overlay networks for AWS environments in Cloudera Data Warehouse serviceCloudera Docs
Overlay networks for AWS environments in Cloudera Data Warehouse service
This topic explains how you can use overlay networks to increase the number of available
 IP addresses for your deployments of Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud.
If you have an existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) where you want to deploy a Virtual
      Warehouse, you must make sure that there is an adequate number of available IP addresses.
      Otherwise, the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service cannot be used efficiently and some
      features like auto-scaling do not work because the number of IP addresses might become
      exhausted. For example, each executor node in a Virtual Warehouse uses 8 IP addresses. If you
      create a SMALL-sized Virtual Warehouse with 2 executor nodes, it uses 16 IP addresses. If you
      create a LARGE-sized Virtual Warehouse with 40 executor nodes, it uses 320 IP addresses. If
      your VPC is small, the available IP addresses can be consumed quickly. Using overlay networks
      solves this issue.
important

Use this feature if your VPC subnet has fewer than 1,024 IP addresses.
Overlay networks are configured to operate up to 200 executor nodes by default. Cloudera
          recommends that you do not exceed this limit or networking limitation might occur.


About overlay networks
An overlay network is a software-defined layer of network abstraction that is used to run
       multiple separate, discrete virtualized network layers over the VPC network. In the case of
       the CDW service, a custom CNI (Container Network Interface) plugin is used to
       enable the overlay network. It creates two network spaces:

A node network space, which derives per-node IP addresses from the VPC.
A Kubernetes pod network space, which derives per-pod IP addresses from the CNI plugin's
         own network space.

The overlay network is bridged into the node network. As a result, one IP address is
       required per node instead of one IP address needed per pod. Consequently, there are more
       available IP addresses and you can use the CDW service efficiently, auto-scaling Virtual
       Warehouses as needed to meet the demands of your workloads.

When to use overlay networks for CDW service environments
By default, when you create a new network during environment registration with the
        Management Console, CDP creates 3 subnets with 8,192 IP addresses per subnet, which means
        there are 24,576 available IP addresses:
Figure 1. Registering an environment with a new network in Management Console


When CDP creates your environment, you most likely will have enough IP
       addresses to use and grow your Virtual Warehouses. However, if you decide
       to use an existing VPC network on your cloud provider, which might have a
       limited number of available IP addresses, configuring your environment to use overlay
       networks for the CDW service avoids IP address exhaustion. Using overlay networks, which can be
     configured for an environment in the CDW service, uses fewer IP addresses because
     it uses an "IP per host" model, so your Virtual Warehouse can be used efficiently.


Related informationRegister an AWS environmentEnabling overlay networks in AWS environmentsThis topic describes how to enable Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) environments on AWS     to use overlay networks to increase the number of IP addresses that are available to Cloudera     Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud. Parent topic: Networking