Viewing and editing AWS environment detailsCloudera Docs
Viewing and editing AWS environment details
This topic describes how to view and edit Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) AWS environment
      details in the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service UI.

You can view CDP AWS environment details without leaving the CDW service UI. Accessing
        the Environment Details page in the CDW UI also enables you to edit
        the description of the environment and the allowed IP Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDRs)
        that control access to Kubernetes and load balancer service endpoints.



You must activate an environment before you can view or edit its details. See
          "Activating AWS environments," which is linked to in the "Related information" section at
          the bottom of this page.

Obtain the DWUser role for viewing environment details.


Obtain the DWAdmin role for editing the environment details.




In the Data Warehouse service, expand Environments by clicking
            More….

In Environments, search for and locate the environment that you
          want to view.

Click Edit. 
In Environment Details, you can view information about
          the environment, like the CDW release version in which you activated the environment, when
          you created and last updated the environment, and how many Database Catalogs and Virtual
          Warehouses use the environment: 


In Configurations, you can also make the following changes:


Add a description for the environment, that makes it easier to identify.
Add or edit the list of IP CIDR(s) for Kubernetes Cluster to
              enable access from your internal network to the Kubernetes endpoints. 
Add or edit the list of IP CIDR(s) for the load
              balancer.
Add an external S3 bucket to access data outside your Data Lake, such as a
              CSV File. 
Enable CloudWatch logs if you use Amazon CloudWatch. In your AWS account, you can
              then find the logs in /aws/eks/<cluster name>/cluster.
noteBefore enabling CloudWatch, you must add required permissions to your IAM
                  policy to access CloudWatch logs; otherwise, your cluster goes into an error
                  state.



Click Apply to save changes.


Related informationActivating environmentsRestricting access to endpoints