Restricting access to endpoints in AWS environmentsCloudera Docs
Restricting access to endpoints in AWS environments
This topic describes how to limit access to Hive, Impala, Data Analytics Studio, or
     Hue endpoints in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud.

You can restrict access to Kubernetes endpoints and load balancer endpoints of the
        Kubernetes cluster by specifying a list of IP Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDRs) that
          are allowed access. Kubernetes endpoints are used to control the deployment and
        maintenance of workload components, such as Virtual Warehouses and Database Catalogs. Load
        balancer endpoints are endpoints of services like Hive, Impala, or Hue.
        
        You can specify trusted IP addresses when you activate a CDP environment to use in the Data
        Warehouse service or in the Environment Details page. Otherwise, all
        external IP addresses can access these endpoints on the Kubernetes cluster that is being
        used in the Data Warehouse service.
Required role: DWAdmin

Contact your network team to get your internal network's IP CIDR ranges of IP
      addresses that need access to Kubernetes and load balancer service endpoints. All Cloudera IP
      addresses that need access to these endpoints have already been allowed.

In the Data Warehouse service, expand the Environments
                  column by clicking the More… menu on the left side of the
                  page.

In the Environments column, click the search icon and locate
            the environment you registered with CDP where you want to specify access for IP CIDRs.

When you locate the environment, click the activation icon to launch the
            Activation Settings dialog box where you can specify the IP CIDRs
          that have access to the Kubernetes and load balancer service endpoints:






In Activation Settings > Advanced Settings, in Enable IP CIDR for
            Kubernetes cluster specify a comma-separated list of IP CIDRs that you want
          to be able to access your Kubernetes endpoints:

In Activation Settings > Advanced Settings, in Enable IP CIDR for the
            load balancer specify a comma-separated list of IP CIDRs that you want to be
          able to access your load balancer endpoints:






After specifying the IP CIDRs, click Activate.


Related informationCIDR (Classless Inter-Domain Routing)Editing the IP CIDRs in the trusted list for endpoints in AWS environmentsThis topic describes how to change access to Hive, Impala, or Hue service endpoints     in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) Public Cloud. Parent topic: Remote access