Cloudera Manager Admin Console Home PageCloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager Admin Console Home Page

When you start the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, the
          Home > Status
      tab displays. You can also go to the
          Home > Status
      tab by clicking the Cloudera Manager logo in the top navigation bar.
The Status tab has two potential views: Table View
      and Classic View. The Classic View contains a set of charts for the
      selected cluster, while the Table View separates regular clusters, compute
      clusters, and other services into summary tables. You can use the
        Switch to Table View and Switch to
        Classic View links on each view to switch between the two
      views. Cloudera Manager remembers which view you select and remains in
      that view.

Figure 1. Cloudera Manager Admin Console: Classic View




Figure 2. Cloudera Manager Admin
          Console


Figure 3. Cloudera Manager Admin Console: Table View



Figure 4. Cloudera Manager Admin Console: Table
        View
Status
 The Status tab contains: 

Clusters - The clusters being managed
            by Cloudera Manager. Each cluster is displayed either in summary
            form or in full form depending on the configuration of the
                Administration > Settings > Other > Maximum
                Cluster Count Shown In Full property.
            When the number of clusters exceeds the value of the property, only
            cluster summary information displays.
Summary Form - A list of links to cluster status pages.
              Click Customize to jump to the
                  Administration > Settings > Other > Maximum
                  Cluster Count Shown In Full
              property.
Full Form - A separate section for each cluster
              containing a link to the cluster status page and a table containing links to the Hosts page
                and the status pages of the services running in the
                cluster.Each service row in the table
                has a menu of actions that you select by clicking the Actions
                Menu () and
                can contain one or more of the following indicators:

Indicator
Meaning
Description




Health issue
Indicates that the service has at least one
                          health issue. The indicator
                            shows the number of health issues at the highest
                            severity level. If there are Bad health test
                            results, the indicator is red. If there are no Bad
                            health test results, but Concerning test results
                            exist, then the indicator is yellow. No indicator is
                            shown if there are no Bad or Concerning health test
                            results.importantIf there is one Bad health test
                            result and two Concerning health results, there will
                            be three health issues, but the number will be
                            one.Click the indicator to display the
                              Health Issues pop-up dialog
                            box.By default only
                              Bad health test results are shown in the dialog
                              box. To display Concerning health test results,
                              click the Also show
                                  n concerning
                                issue(s) link.Click the link to display the
                              Status page containing with details about the
                              health test result.



Configuration issue
Indicates that the service has at least one
                          configuration issue. The
                            indicator shows the number of configuration issues
                            at the highest severity level. If there are
                            configuration errors, the indicator is red. If there
                            are no errors but configuration warnings exist, then
                            the indicator is yellow. No indicator is shown if
                            there are no configuration notifications.importantIf there is
                            one configuration error and two configuration
                            warnings, there will be three configuration issues,
                            but the number will be one.Click the
                            indicator to display the Configuration
                              Issues pop-up dialog box.By default only notifications
                              at the Error severity level are listed, grouped by
                              service name are shown in the dialog box. To
                              display Warning notifications, click the
                                Also show n
                                warning(s) link.Click the message associated
                              with an error or warning to be taken to the
                              configuration property for which the notification
                              has been issued where you can address the
                              issue.


 Restart
                              Needed Refresh
                            Needed
Configuration modified
Indicates that at least one of a service's roles
                          is running with a configuration that does not match
                          the current configuration settings in Cloudera
                              Manager.Click the
                              indicator to display the Stale
                                Configurations page.To bring
                            the cluster up-to-date, click the Refresh or Restart
                            button on the Stale Configurations page. You can
                            also Refresh or
                              Restart, the cluster or
                            restart the services. 



Client configuration redeployment
                          required
Indicates that the client configuration for a
                          service should be redeployed.Click the
                              indicator to display the Stale
                                Configurations page. To bring
                            the cluster up-to-date, click the Deploy Client
                            Configuration button on the Stale Configurations
                            page or manually redeploy the client
                            configuration.


Cloudera Management Service - A table containing a link
              to the Cloudera Manager Service. The Cloudera Manager Service has
              a menu of actions that you select by clicking .
Charts - A set of charts
                (dashboards) that summarize resource utilization (IO, CPU usage)
                and processing metrics. Click a
                  line, stack area, scatter, or bar chart to expand it into a
                  full-page view with a legend for the individual charted
                  entities as well more fine-grained axes divisions.By default the time scale of a dashboard is 30
                minutes. To change the time scale, click a duration link  at the top-right of the dashboard.To set the dashboard type, click  and select one of the following:
Custom - displays a custom
                    dashboard.
Default - displays a default
                    dashboard.
Reset - resets the custom dashboard
                    to the predefined set of charts, discarding any
                    customizations.




All Health Issues
Displays all health issues by cluster. The number badge has the same
        semantics as the per service health issues reported on the Status tab. 

By default only Bad health test results are shown in the dialog box.
          To display Concerning health test results, click the Also
            show n concerning issue(s) link.
To group the health test results by entity or health test, click the
          buttons on the Organize by Entity/Organize by Health
            Test switch.
Click the link to display the Status page containing with details
          about the health test result.


All Configuration Issues
Displays all configuration issues by cluster. The number badge has the
        same semantics as the per service configuration issues reported on the
        Status tab. By default only notifications at the Error severity level
        are listed, grouped by service name are shown in the dialog box. To
        display Warning notifications, click the Also show
            n warning(s) link. Click the message
        associated with an error or warning to be taken to the configuration
        property for which the notification has been issued where you can
        address the issue. 

All Recent Commands
 Displays all commands run recently across the clusters. A badge  indicates how many recent commands are still
        running. Click the command link to display details about the command and
        child commands.

Displaying the Cloudera Manager Server Version and Server
        Time
To display the version, build number, and time for the Cloudera Manager
          Server:
Open the Cloudera Manager Admin Console.
Select
                Support > About.



Related informationManaging Cloudera Runtime ServicesViewing and Running Recent CommandsParent topic: Cloudera Manager Admin Console