Cloudera Manager AgentsCloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager Agents
The Cloudera Manager Agent is a Cloudera Manager component that
    works with the Cloudera Manager Server to manage the processes that map to
    role instances.
In a Cloudera Manager managed cluster, you can only
      start or stop role instance processes using Cloudera Manager. Cloudera
      Manager uses an open source process management tool called
        supervisord, that starts processes, takes care of
      redirecting log files, notifying of process failure, setting the effective
      user ID of the calling process to the right user, and so on. Cloudera
      Manager supports automatically restarting a crashed process. It will also
      flag a role instance with a bad health flag if its process crashes
      repeatedly right after start up.
The Agent is started by init.d at
      start-up. It, in turn, contacts the Cloudera Manager Server and determines
      which processes should be running. The Agent is monitored as part of
      Cloudera Manager's host monitoring. If the Agent stops heartbeating, the
      host is marked as having bad health.
One of the Agent's main responsibilities is to start
      and stop processes. When the Agent detects a new process from the Server
      heartbeat, the Agent creates a directory for it in
        /var/run/cloudera-scm-agent and unpacks the
      configuration. It then contacts supervisord, which starts
      the process. 
cm_processes
To enable Cloudera Manager to run scripts in subdirectories of
          /var/run/cloudera-scm-agent, (because
          /var/run is mounted noexec in many
        Linux distributions), Cloudera Manager mounts a tmpfs
        (temporary file storage), named cm_processes, for
        process subdirectories. 
A tmpfs defaults to a max size of 50% of physical RAM
        but this space is not allocated until its used, and tmpfs is paged out
        to swap if there is memory pressure.
The lifecycle actions of cmprocesses can be described
        by the following statements:

Created when the Agent starts up for the first time with a new
          supervisord process.
If it already exists without noexec, reused when
          the Agent is started using start and not
          recreated.
Remounted if Agent is started using
          clean_restart.
Unmounting and remounting cleans out the contents (since it is
          mounted as a tmpfs).
Unmounted when the host is rebooted.
Not unmounted when the Agent is stopped. 



Related informationSupervisor: A Process Control System