Monitoring a Cluster Using Cloudera ManagerCloudera Docs
Monitoring a Cluster Using Cloudera Manager
Cloudera Manager provides many features for monitoring the health
    and performance of the components of your clusters (hosts, service daemons)
    as well as the performance and resource demands of the jobs running on your
    clusters. 
The following monitoring features are available in Cloudera Manager:

Monitoring Cloudera Runtime
            Services - describes how to view the results of health
        tests at both the service and role instance level. Various types of
        metrics are displayed in charts that help with problem diagnosis. Health
        tests include advice about actions you can take if the health of a
        component becomes concerning or bad. You can also view the history of
        actions performed on a service or role, and can view an audit log of
        configuration changes.
Monitoring Hosts - describes how to view information
        pertaining to all the hosts on your cluster: which hosts are up or down,
        current resident and virtual memory consumption for a host, what role
        instances are running on a host, which hosts are assigned to different
        racks, and so on. You can look at a summary view for all hosts in your
        cluster or drill down for extensive details about an individual host,
        including charts that provide a visual overview of key metrics on your
        host.
Activities - describes
        how to view the activities running on the cluster, both at the current
        time and through dashboards that show historical activity, and provides
        many statistics, both in tabular displays and charts, about the
        resources used by individual jobs. You can compare the performance of
        similar jobs and view the performance of individual task attempts across
        a job to help diagnose behavior or performance problems.
Events - describes how to view events and make them
        available for alerting and for searching, giving you a view into the
        history of all relevant events that occur cluster-wide. You can filter
        events by time range, service, host, keyword, and so on.
Alerts - describes how to configure Cloudera Manager to
        generate alerts from certain events. You can configure thresholds for
        certain types of events, enable and disable them, and configure alert
        notifications by email or using SNMP trap for critical events. You can
        also suppress alerts temporarily for individual roles, services, hosts,
        or even the entire cluster to allow system maintenance/troubleshooting
        without generating excessive alert traffic.
Lifecycle and Security Auditing - describes how to view
        service, role, and host lifecycle events such as creating a role or
        service, making configuration revisions for a role or service,
        decommissioning and recommissioning hosts, and running commands recorded
        by Cloudera Manager management services. You can filter audit event
        entries by time range, service, host, keyword, and so on.
Charting Time-Series Data - describes how to search
        metric data, create charts of the data, group (facet) the data, and save
        those charts to user-defined dashboards.
Logs -  describes how to
        access logs in a variety of ways that take into account the current
        context you are viewing. For example, when monitoring a service, you can
        easily click a single link to view the log entries related to that
        specific service, through the same user interface. When viewing
        information about a user's activity, you can easily view the relevant
        log entries that occurred on the hosts used by the job while the job was
        running.
Reports - describes
        how to view historical information about disk utilization by user, user
        group, and by directory and view cluster job activity user, group, or
        job ID. These reports are aggregated over selected time periods (hourly,
        daily, weekly, and so on) and can be exported as XLS or CSV files. You
        can also manage HDFS directories as well, including searching and
        setting quotas.
Troubleshooting Cluster Configuration and Operation -
        contains solutions to some common problems that prevent you from using
        Cloudera Manager and describes how to use Cloudera Manager log and
        notification management tools to diagnose problems.


