Cloudera Manager Admin ConsoleCloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager Admin Console
Cloudera Manager Admin Console is the web-based interface that you
    use to configure, manage, and monitor Cloudera Runtime. 
 The Cloudera Manager Admin Console side navigation bar provides the
      following tabs and menus:noteDepending on the user role used to log in,
        some items may not appear in the Cloudera Manager Admin
        Console.
Search - Supports searching for services, roles, hosts,
          configuration properties, and commands. You can enter a partial string
          and a drop-down list with up to sixteen entities that match will
          display.
Clusters > cluster_name
Services - Display individual services,
              and the Cloudera Management Service. In these pages you can:
View the status and other details of a service instance or
                  the role instances associated with the service
Make configuration changes to a service instance, a role, or
                  a specific role instance
Add and delete a service or role
Stop, start, or restart a service or role.
View the commands that have been run for a service or a
                  role
View an audit event history
Deploy and download client configurations
Decommission and recommission role instances
Enter or exit maintenance mode
Perform actions unique to a specific type of service. For
                    example:
Enable HDFS high availability or NameNode
                      federation
Run the HDFS Balancer
Create HBase, Hive, and Sqoop directories


Cloudera Manager Management Service -
              Manage and monitor the Cloudera Manager Management Service. This
              includes the following roles: Activity Monitor, Alert Publisher,
              Event Server, Host Monitor, Navigator Audit Server, Navigator
              Metadata Server, Reports Manager, and Service Monitor. 
Hosts - Displays the hosts in the
              cluster.
Reports - Create reports about the
              HDFS, MapReduce, YARN, and Impala usage and browse HDFS files, and
              manage quotas for HDFS directories.
Utilization Report - Opens the
                Cluster Utilization Report.  displays
              aggregated utilization information for YARN and Impala jobs.
MapReduce_service_name Jobs - Query
              information about MapReduce jobs running on your cluster.
YARN_service_name Applications - Query
              information about YARN applications running on your cluster.
Impala_service_name Queries - Query
              information about Impala queries running on your cluster.
Dynamic Resource Pools - Manage dynamic allocation of
              cluster resources to YARN and Impala services by specifying the
              relative weights of named pools.
Static Service Pools - Manage static allocation of
              cluster resources to HBase, HDFS, Impala, MapReduce, and YARN
              services.

Hosts - Display the hosts managed by
          Cloudera Manager. 
All Hosts - Displays a list of manage
              hosts in the cluster. 
Add Hosts - Launches the Add Hosts
              wizard. 
Parcels  - Displays parcels available in
              the cluster and allows you to download, distribute, and activate
              new parcels.
Hosts Configuration - Opens the
                Hosts Configuration page where you can
              configure hosts and specify overrides for globally-configured
              properties for one or more hosts. 
Roles - Displays the roles deployed on
              each host. 
Host Templates - Create and manage
                Host Templates, which define sets of role
              groups that can be used to easily expand a cluster.
Disks Overview - Displays the status of
              all disks in the cluster. 
In this page you can:
View the status and a variety of detail metrics about individual
              hosts
Make configuration changes for host monitoring
View all the processes running on a host
Run the Host Inspector
Add and delete hosts
Create and manage host templates
Manage parcels
Decommission and recommission hosts
Make rack assignments
Run the host upgrade wizard

Diagnostics - Review logs, events, and
          alerts to diagnose problems. The subpages are:
Events - Search for and displaying events and alerts that
              have occurred.
Logs - Search logs by service, role, host, and search
              phrase as well as log level (severity).
Server Log -Display the Cloudera Manager Server log.

Audits - Query and filter
          audit events across clusters, including logins, across clusters.
Charts - Query for metrics of interest,
          display them as charts, and display personalized chart
          dashboards.
Replication - Manage replication schedules and snapshot
          policies.
Administration -
          Administer Cloudera Manager. The subpages are:
Settings - Configure Cloudera Manager.
Alerts - Display when alerts will be generated, configure
              alert recipients, and send test alert email.
Users & Roles - Manage Cloudera Manager users and
              their assigned roles, and sessions.
Security - Generate Kerberos credentials and inspect
              hosts.
License - Manage Cloudera licenses.
Language - Set the language used for the content of
              activity events, health events, and alert email messages.
External Accounts - Configure connectivity from cloud
              services to Cloudera Manager.

Parcels  Opens the Parcels page where
          you can view the status of installed and available parcels. 
Recent Commands Indicator -
displays the status commands currently or
            recently running for all services or roles.
Support - Displays various support actions. The subcommands
            are:
Send Diagnostic Data  - Sends data to Cloudera Support to
              support troubleshooting.
Support Portal (Cloudera Enterprise)
              - Displays the Cloudera Support portal.
Scheduled Diagnostics: Weekly - Configure the frequency
              of automatically collecting diagnostic data and sending to
              Cloudera support.
The following links open the latest documentation on the
              Cloudera web site:
Help
Installation Guide 
API Documentation
API Explorer (Cloudera Manager Swagger
                  interface)
Release Notes

About - Version number and build details of Cloudera
              Manager and the current date and time stamp of the Cloudera
              Manager server.

Logged-in User Menu - The currently logged-in user. The
          subcommands are:
My Profile - Displays the role and login
              information for the current user. 
Change Password - Change the password of the currently
              logged in user.
Logout




Cloudera Manager Admin Console Home PageAutomatic LogoutFor security purposes, Cloudera Manager automatically logs out a user session after 30     minutes. You can change this session logout period. 