Resource ManagementCloudera Docs
Resource Management
Resource management helps ensure predictable behavior by defining the impact of
    different services on cluster resources. 
Use resource management to:
Guarantee completion in a reasonable time frame for critical workloads.
Support reasonable cluster scheduling between groups of users based on fair allocation
          of resources per group.
Prevent users from depriving other users access to the cluster.

Statically allocating resources using cgroups is
      configurable through a single static service pool wizard. You
      allocate services as a percentage of total resources, and the wizard
      configures the cgroups.
For example, the following figure illustrates static
      pools for HBase, HDFS, Impala, and YARN services that are respectively
      assigned 20%, 30%, 20%, and 30% of cluster resources.



You can dynamically apportion
        resources that are statically allocated to YARN and Impala by using
          dynamic resource pools.
Depending on the version of Cloudera Runtime you are using, dynamic
      resource pools in Cloudera Manager support the following scenarios:
YARN - YARN manages the virtual cores,
          memory, running applications, maximum resources for undeclared
          children (for parent pools), and scheduling policy for each pool. In
          the preceding diagram, three dynamic resource pools—Dev,
          Product, and Mktg with weights 3, 2, and 1 respectively—are defined
          for YARN. If an application starts and is assigned to the Product
          pool, and other applications are using the Dev and Mktg pools, the
          Product resource pool receives 30% x 2/6 (or 10%) of the total cluster
          resources. If no applications are using the Dev and Mktg pools, the
          YARN Product pool is allocated 30% of the cluster resources.
Impala - Impala manages
          memory for pools running queries and limits the number of running and
          queued queries in each pool.


