State ManagementCloudera Docs
State Management
The Cloudera Manager Server maintains the state of the cluster.
    This state can be divided into two categories: "model" and "runtime", both
    of which are stored in the Cloudera Manager Server database.



Cloudera Manager models clusters and managed services:
      their roles, configurations, and inter-dependencies. Model state captures what is supposed to
      run where, and with what configurations. For example, model state captures
      the fact that a cluster contains 17 hosts, each of which is supposed to
      run a DataNode. You interact with the model through the Cloudera Manager
      Admin Console configuration screens and API and operations such as "Add
      Service".

Runtime state is what processes are running where, and what
        commands (for example, rebalance HDFS or run a
          Backup/Disaster Recovery schedule or rolling restart or
          stop) are currently running. The runtime state includes the
        exact configuration files needed to run a process. When you select Start
        in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console, the server gathers up all the
        configuration for the relevant services and roles, validates it,
        generates the configuration files, and stores them in the database.
When you update a configuration (for example, the Hue Server web port),
        you have updated the model state. However, if Hue is running while you
        do this, it is still using the old port. When this kind of mismatch
        occurs, the role is marked as having an "outdated configuration". To
        resynchronize, you restart the role (which triggers the configuration
        re-generation and process restart).
While Cloudera Manager models all of the reasonable
      configurations, some cases inevitably require special handling. To allow
      you to workaround, for example, a bug or to explore unsupported options,
      Cloudera Manager supports an "advanced configuration snippet"
      mechanism that lets you add properties directly to the configuration
      files.

Related informationAdvanced Configuration Snippets