Compatibility Considerations for Virtual Private ClustersCloudera Docs
Compatibility Considerations for Virtual Private Clusters 

Related informationNetworking Considerations for Virtual Private ClustersParent topic: Virtual Private Clusters and Cloudera SDX
CDH and Cloudera Runtime Version Compatibility

The Cloudera Runtime version of the Compute cluster must match the
        major.minor version of the Base cluster. Support for additional
        combinations of Compute and Base cluster versions may be added at a
        later time. The following Cloudera Runtime and CDH versions are
        supported for creating Virtual Private Clusters: 
CDH 5.15
CDH 5.16
CDH 6.0
CDH 6.1
CDH 6.2
CDH 6.3
Cloudera Runtime 7.0.3
Cloudera Runtime 7.1.1 and higher




Licensing Requirements

A valid CDP Private Cloud Base Edition license is required to
        use Virtual Private Clusters. You cannot access this feature with a
          CDP Private Cloud Base Edition Trial license. 



Components


SOLR – Not supported on Compute clusters
Kudu – Not supported on Compute clusters. 
HDFS
Either the Core Configuration service or the HDFS service is
              required on Compute clusters as temporary, persistent space. If
              you are using Hive-on-Tez in the Compute Cluster, the HDFS service
              is required. The intent is to use this for Hive temporary queries
              and is also recommended for multi-stage Spark ETL jobs.
Cloudera recommends a minimum storage of 1TB per host,
              configured as the HDFS DataNode storage directory.
The Base cluster must have an HDFS service. 
Isilon is not supported on the Base cluster.
S3 and ADLS connectors are supported only on the Base
              cluster; Compute clusters will use the supplied S3 or ADLS
              credentials from their associated Base cluster
The HDFS service on the Base cluster must be
              configured for high availability.

Cloudera highly recommends enabling high availability
                for the HDFS service on the Compute cluster, but it is not
                required. 


The Base and compute nameservice names must be
                distinct.

The following configurations for the local HDFS
              service on a compute cluster must match the configurations on the
              Base cluster. This enables services on the Compute cluster to
              correctly access services on the Base cluster:

Hadoop RPC protection


Data Transfer protection


Enable Data Transfer Encryption

Kerberos Configurations
TLS/SSL Configuration (only when the cluster is not using
                  Auto-TLS). See Security.

Do not override the nameservice configuration in the Compute
              cluster by using Advanced Configuration Snippets.
The HDFS path to compute cluster home directories use the
              following structure:
                  /mc/<cluster_id>/fs/userYou
                can find the <cluster_id> by clicking the
                cluster name in the Cloudera Manager Admin Console. The URL
                displayed by your browser includes the cluster id. For example,
                in the URL below, the cluster ID is
                1.http://myco-1.prod.com:7180/cmf/clusters/1/status


Backup and Disaster Recovery (BDR) – not supported when the
          source cluster is a Compute cluster and the target cluster is running
          a version of Cloudera Manager lower than 6.2. 
YARN and MapReduce
If both MapReduce (MR1, Deprecated in CM6) and YARN (MR2) are
              available on the Base cluster, dependent services in the Compute
              cluster such as Hive Execution Service will use MR1 because of the
              way service dependencies are handled in Cloudera Manager. To use
              YARN, you can update the configuration to make these Compute
              cluster services depend on YARN (MR2) before using YARN in your
              applications. 

Impala – Not supported on Compute clusters
Hue
Only one Hue service instance is supported on a
              Compute cluster.
The Hue service on Compute clusters will not share
              user-specific query history with the Hue service on other Compute
              clusters or Hue services on the Base cluster
Hue examples may not install correctly due to
              differing permissions for creating tables and inserting data. You
              can work around this problem by deleting the sample tables and
              then re-adding them.
              
If you add Hue to a Compute cluster after the cluster has
              already been created, you will need to manually configure any
              dependencies on other services (such as Hive or Hive Execution
              Service) in the Compute cluster. 

Hive Execution ServiceThe newly
            introduced “Hive execution service” is only supported on Compute
            clusters, and is not supported on Base or Regular clusters.
              To enable Hue to run Hive queries on a Compute
            cluster, you must install the Hive Execution
              Service on the Compute cluster.  




Compute Cluster Services

Only the following services can be installed on Compute clusters:

Hive Execution Service (This service supplies the
          HiveServer2 role only.)
Hue
Kafka
Spark 2
Oozie (only when Hue is available, and is a requirement
          for Hue)
YARN
HDFS
Stub DFS (Stub DFS replaces Core Settings and requires the Storage Operations
          role.)




Cloudera Navigator Support

Navigator lineage and metadata, and Navigator KMS are not
        supported on Compute clusters.



Cloudera Manager Permissions

Cluster administrators who are authorized to only see Base or
        Compute clusters can only see and administer these clusters, but cannot
        create, delete, or manage Data Contexts. Data context creation and
        deletion is only allowed with the Full Administrator use role or for
        unrestricted Cluster Administrators.



Security 



KMS
Base cluster: 
Hadoop KMS is not supported.
KeyTrustee KMS is supported on Base cluster.


Compute cluster: Any type of KMS is
                    not supported.


Authentication/User directory 
Users should be identically configured on hosts on
                compute and Base clusters, as if the nodes are part of the same
                cluster. This includes Linux local users, LDAP, Active
                Directory, or other third-party user directory
                integrations.

Kerberos

If a Base cluster has Kerberos installed, then the
                Compute and Base clusters  must both use Kerberos in the same
                Kerberos realm. The Cloudera Manager  Admin Console helps
                facilitate this configuration in the cluster creation process to
                ensure compatible Kerberos configuration.

TLS 
If the Base cluster has TLS configured for cluster
                services, Compute cluster services must also have TLS configured
                for services that access those Base cluster services. 
Cloudera strongly recommends enabling Auto-TLS to
                ensure that services on Base and Compute clusters uniformly use
                TLS for communication.
If you have configured TLS, but are not using Auto-TLS, note
                the following: 
You must create an identical configuration on the Compute
                    cluster hosts before you add them to a Compute
                    cluster using Cloudera Manager. Copy all files located in
                    the directories specified by the following configuration
                    properties, from the Base clusters to the Compute cluster hosts:
hadoop.security.group.mapping.ldap.ssl.keystore
ssl.server.keystore.location
ssl.client.truststore.location

Cloudera Manager will copy the following configurations to
                    the compute cluster when you create the Compute cluster. 
hadoop.security.group.mapping.ldap.use.ssl
hadoop.security.group.mapping.ldap.ssl.keystore
hadoop.security.group.mapping.ldap.ssl.keystore.password
hadoop.ssl.enabled
ssl.server.keystore.location
ssl.server.keystore.password
ssl.server.keystore.keypassword
ssl.client.truststore.location
ssl.client.truststore.password








Networking

Workloads running on Compute clusters will communicate
        heavily with hosts on the Base cluster; Customers should have network
        monitoring in place for networking hardware (such as switches including
        top-of-rack, spine/leaf routers and so on) to track and adjust bandwidth
        between racks hosting hosts utilized in Compute and Base clusters.
You can also use the Cloudera Manager Network Performance Inspector to
        evaluate your network.
For more information on how to set up networking, see Networking Considerations for Virtual Private Clusters.


