Software Distribution ManagementCloudera Docs
Software Distribution Management

A major function of Cloudera Manager is to install and upgrade Cloudera
      Runtime and other managed services. Cloudera Manager supports two software
      distribution formats: packages and parcels.
A package is a binary distribution format that contains
      compiled code and meta-information such as a package description, version,
      and dependencies. Package management systems evaluate this
      meta-information to allow package searches, perform upgrades to a newer
      version, and ensure that all dependencies of a package are fulfilled.
      Cloudera Manager uses the built-in system package manager for each supported
      OS to install and upgrade Cloudera Manager.
A parcel is a binary distribution format containing the
      program files, along with additional metadata used by Cloudera Manager.
      Parcels provide the following advantages: 
Parcels are self-contained and installed in a versioned directory,
          which means that multiple versions of a given parcel can be installed
          side-by-side. You can then designate one of these installed versions
          as the active one. With packages, only one package can be installed at
          a time so there is no distinction between what is installed and what
          is active.
Parcels are required for rolling upgrades.
You can install parcels at any location in the filesystem. They are
          installed by default in /opt/cloudera/parcels. In
          contrast, packages are installed in /usr/lib.
When you install from the Parcels page,
          Cloudera Manager automatically downloads, distributes, and activates
          the correct parcel for the operating system running on each host in
          the cluster. All Cloudera Runtime hosts that make up a logical cluster
          must run on the same major OS release to be covered by Cloudera
          Support. Cloudera Manager must run on the same major OS release as at
          least one of the Cloudera Runtime clusters it manages, to be covered
          by Cloudera Support. The risk of issues caused by running different
          minor OS releases is considered lower than the risk of running
          different major OS releases. Cloudera recommends running the same
          minor release cross-cluster, because it simplifies issue tracking and
          supportability..

Because of their unique properties, parcels offer the following
      advantages over packages:
Distribution of Cloudera Runtime as a single object - Instead
          of having a separate package for each component of Cloudera Runtime,
          parcels are distributed as a single object. This makes it easier to
          distribute software to a cluster that is not connected to the
          Internet.
Internal consistency - All Cloudera Runtime components are
          matched, eliminating the possibility of installing components from
          different Cloudera Runtime versions.
Installation outside of /usr - In some
          environments, Hadoop administrators do not have privileges to install
          system packages. With parcels, administrators can install to
            /opt, or anywhere else.noteWith parcels, the path to the Cloudera
              Runtime libraries is /opt/cloudera/parcels/Cloudera
                Runtime/lib instead of the usual
                /usr/lib. Do not link
                /usr/lib/ elements to parcel-deployed paths,
              because the links can cause scripts that distinguish between the
              two paths to not work.
Installation of Cloudera Runtime without
            sudo - Parcel installation is handled by the
          Cloudera Manager Agent running as root or another
          user, so you can install Cloudera Runtime without
            sudo.
Decoupled distribution from activation - With side-by-side
          install capabilities, you can stage a new version of Cloudera Runtime
          across the cluster before switching to it. This allows the most
          time-consuming part of an upgrade to be done ahead of time without
          affecting cluster operations, thereby reducing downtime.
Rolling upgrades - Using packages requires you to shut down
          the old process, upgrade the package, and then start the new process.
          Errors can be difficult to recover from, and upgrading requires
          extensive integration with the package management system to function
          seamlessly. With parcels, when a new version is staged side-by-side,
          you can switch to a new minor version by simply changing which version
          of Cloudera Runtime is used when restarting each process. You can then
          perform upgrades with rolling restarts, in which service roles are
          restarted in the correct order to switch to the new version with
          minimal service interruption. Your cluster can continue to run on the
          existing installed components while you stage a new version across
          your cluster, without impacting your current operations. Major version
          upgrades (for example, CDH 5 to Cloudera Runtime 7) require full
          service restarts because of substantial changes between the versions.
          Finally, you can upgrade individual parcels or multiple parcels at the
          same time.
Upgrade management - Cloudera Manager manages all the steps
          in a Cloudera Runtime cluster upgrade. 
Additional components - Parcels are not limited to Cloudera
          Runtime. LZO and add-on service parcels are also available.
Compatibility with other distribution tools - Cloudera
          Manager works with other tools you use for download and distribution,
          such as Puppet. Or, you can download the parcel to Cloudera Manager
          Server manually if your cluster has no Internet connectivity and then
          have Cloudera Manager distribute the parcel to the cluster.

For more information, see Overview of Parcels.

