Security ManagementCloudera Docs
Security Management
Cloudera Manager consolidates security configurations and
    management for all components in your clusters.
For more information, see Security Overview.
Authentication
Authentication is a process that requires users and services to prove
        their identity when trying to access a system resource. Organizations
        typically manage user identity and authentication through various
        time-tested technologies, including Lightweight Directory Access
        Protocol (LDAP) for identity, directory, and other services, such as
        group management, and Kerberos for authentication.
Cloudera clusters support integration with both of these technologies.
        For example, organizations with existing LDAP directory services such as
        Active Directory (included in Microsoft Windows Server as part of its
        suite of Active Directory Services) can leverage the organization's
        existing user accounts and group listings instead of creating new
        accounts throughout the cluster. Using an external system such as Active
        Directory or OpenLDAP is required to support the user role authorization
        mechanism implemented in Cloudera Navigator.
For authentication, Cloudera supports integration with MIT Kerberos and
        with Active Directory. Microsoft Active Directory supports Kerberos for
        authentication in addition to its identity management and directory
        functionality, that is, LDAP. 
These systems are not mutually exclusive. For example, Microsoft Active
        Directory is an LDAP directory service that also provides Kerberos
        authentication services, and Kerberos credentials can be stored and
        managed in an LDAP directory service. Cloudera Manager Server, cluster
        nodes, and components, such as Apache Hive, Hue, and Impala, can all
        make use of Kerberos authentication.

Authorization
Authorization is concerned with who or what has access or control over
        a given resource or service. Since Hadoop merges together the
        capabilities of multiple varied, and previously separate IT systems as
        an enterprise data hub that stores and works on all data within an
        organization, it requires multiple authorization controls with varying
        granularities. In such cases, Hadoop management tools simplify setup and
        maintenance by:
Tying all users to groups, which can be specified in existing LDAP
            or AD directories.
Providing role-based access control for similar interaction
            methods, like batch and interactive SQL queries. 


Cloudera Runtime currently provides the following forms of access
          control:


Traditional POSIX-style permissions for directories and files,
              where each directory and file is assigned a single owner and
              group. Each assignment has a basic set of permissions available;
              file permissions are simply read, write, and execute, and
              directories have an additional permission to determine access to
              child directories.


HDFS ACLs that provide
              fine-grained control of permissions for HDFS files by allowing you
              to set different permissions for specific named users or named
              groups.


Apache HBase uses ACLs to authorize various operations
                (READ, WRITE, CREATE, ADMIN) by column, column
              family, and column family qualifier. HBase ACLs are granted and
              revoked to both users and groups.


Role-based access control with Apache Ranger.




Encryption
Data at rest and data in transit encryption function at different
        technology layers of the cluster:


