Cloudera Manager TerminologyCloudera Docs
Cloudera Manager Terminology
Terminology used in Cloudera Manager.
To effectively use Cloudera Manager, you should first
      understand its terminology. 
The relationship between the terms is illustrated below
      and their definitions follow:


Some of the terms, such as cluster and service, are used without
        further explanation. Other terms, such as role group, gateway, host
        template, and parcel are explained in the below sections.
Sometimes the terms service and role are used
        to refer to both types and instances, which can be
        confusing. Cloudera Manager and this section sometimes use the same
        term for type and instance. For example, the Cloudera
        Manager Admin Console Home > Status tab and the Clusters > 
ClusterName
            
 menu list service instances.
        This is similar to the practice in programming languages where the term
        "string" might indicate a type (java.lang.String) or an
        instance of that type ("hi there"). Where it is necessary to distinguish
        between types and instances, the word "type" is appended to indicate a
        type and the word "instance" is appended to explicitly indicate an instance.

deployment
A configuration of Cloudera Manager and all the clusters it
          manages.

dynamic resource pool
In Cloudera Manager, a named configuration of resources and a policy
          for scheduling the resources among YARN applications or Impala queries
          running in the pool.

cluster

A set of computers or racks of computers that contains an HDFS
            filesystem and runs MapReduce and other processes on that data. 
In Cloudera Manager, a logical entity that contains a set of
            hosts, a single version of Cloudera Runtime installed on the hosts,
            and the service and role instances running on the hosts. A host can
            belong to only one cluster. Cloudera Manager can manage multiple
            clusters, however each cluster can only be associated with a single
            Cloudera Manager Server.


host
In Cloudera Manager, a physical or virtual machine that runs role
          instances. A host can belong to only one cluster.

rack
In Cloudera Manager, a physical entity that contains a set of
          physical hosts typically served by the same switch.

service


A Linux command that runs a System V init script in
                /etc/init.d/ in as predictable an environment
              as possible, removing most environment variables and setting the
              current working directory to /.
A category of managed functionality in Cloudera Manager, which
              may be distributed or not, running in a cluster. Sometimes
              referred to as a service type. For example: Hive, HBase, HDFS,
              YARN, and Spark. 



service instance
In Cloudera Manager, an instance of a service running on a cluster.
          For example: "HDFS-1" and "yarn". A service instance spans many role
          instances.

role
In Cloudera Manager, a category of functionality within a service.
          For example, the HDFS service has the following roles: NameNode,
          SecondaryNameNode, DataNode, and Balancer. Sometimes referred to as a
          role type. 

role instance
In Cloudera Manager, an instance of a role running on a host. It
          typically maps to a Unix process. For example: "NameNode-h1" and
          "DataNode-h1".

role group
In Cloudera Manager, a set of configuration properties for a set of
          role instances. 

host template
A set of role groups in Cloudera Manager. When a template is applied
          to a host, a role instance from each role group is created and
          assigned to that host.

gateway
A type of role that typically provides client access to specific
          cluster services. For example, HDFS, Hive, Kafka, MapReduce, Solr, and
          Spark each have gateway roles to provide access for their clients to
          their respective services. Gateway roles do not always have "gateway"
          in their names, nor are they exclusively for client access. For
          example, Hue Kerberos Ticket Renewer is a gateway role that proxies
          tickets from Kerberos. 
The node supporting one or more gateway roles is sometimes referred
          to as the gateway node or edge node, with
          the notion of "edge" common in network or cloud environments. In terms
          of the Cloudera cluster, the gateway nodes in the cluster receive the
          appropriate client configuration files when Deploy Client
            Configuration is selected from the Actions menu in
          Cloudera Manager Admin Console.

parcel
A binary distribution format that contains compiled code and
          meta-information such as a package description, version, and
          dependencies.

static service pool
In Cloudera Manager, a static partitioning of total cluster
          resources—CPU, memory, and I/O weight—across a set of services.



