Support reading and writing Parquet bloom filtersCloudera Docs
Support reading and writing Parquet bloom filters
Bloom filter is a performance optimization feature now available in Impala. This filter
  tells you, rapidly and memory-efficiently, whether the data you are looking for is present in a
  file. 
Impala determines the appropriate conditions while the query is running. Impala can now read
   and write Parquet bloom filters. However, bloom filters can also provide false positives. If a
   bloom filter evaluates to: 

true: data might be present in the data file or might not be present.
false: data is not present.

 Currently, bloom filters are per column chunk entries which implies that you can skip entire
   row groups based on the filter. Writing a bloom filter is not useful for dictionary encoded
   columns, as all distinct values are included in the dictionary and the dictionary can give exact
   results in filtering with the predicate. If no value passes the predicate the whole row group can
   be skipped.
For example, if there is a predicate 'WHERE col = some_value' and some_value is not
   in the bloom filter the row group will be discarded.
Bloom filters support reading and writing columns with the following data types: integers,
   float, double, and Impala strings. Reading does not need any intervention from Impala, however,
   writing can be controlled by a new query option parquet_bloom_filter_write and
   the table property parquet.bloom.filter.columns.
The following table contains the list of the supported data types.

Parquet type
Impala type


INT32
TINYINT, SMALLINT, INT


INT64
BIGINT


FLOAT
FLOAT


DOUBLE
DOUBLE


BYTE_ARRAY
STRING


Query option
The query option for writing Parquet bloom filters (parquet_bloom_filter_write) accepts any of
    the following values:



NEVER - never write Parquet bloom filters.


IF_NO_DICT - write Parquet bloom filters if specified in the table
       properties AND if the row group is not fully dictionary encoded (the number of distinct
       values exceeds the maximum dictionary size); the row group may still be partially dictionary
       encoded, in which case the bloom filter contains all values from the whole row group,
       including those that are present in the dictionary.


ALWAYS - always write Parquet bloom filters if specified in the table
       properties, even if the row group is fully dictionary encoded.




Table setting
The parquet.bloom.filter.columns table property is a comma separated list of
    'col_name:bytes' pairs.
Where:
col_name is the name of the column for which a bloom filter should
    be written;
bytes represents the size (in bytes) of the bitset of the bloom
    filter, and is optional. If you do not provide the size, it will default to the maximal bloom
    filter size (ParquetBloomFilter::MAX_BYTES).
Example: “col1:1024,col2,col4:100"

Limitations
The following table contains the data types that are not supported currently. Support for
    these data types may be added in a future release.



Impala type
Reason for not supporting


VARCHAR(N)
truncation can change hash


CHAR(N)
padding / truncation can change hash


DECIMAL
multiple encodings supported


TIMESTAMP
multiple encodings supported, timezone conversion


DATE
not considered yet





Parent topic: Performance Considerations