On-demand MetadataCloudera Docs
On-demand Metadata
 With the on-demand metadata feature, the Impala coordinators pull
    metadata as needed from catalogd and cache it locally. The
    cached metadata gets evicted automatically under memory pressure. 

      The granularity of on-demand metadata fetches is at the partition level between the
      coordinator and catalogd. Common use cases like add/drop partitions do
      not trigger unnecessary serialization/deserialization of large metadata.
    
 The feature can be used in either of the following modes. 
 Metadata on-demand mode 
 In this mode, all coordinators use the metadata on-demand. 
 Set the following on catalogd:
            --catalog_topic_mode=minimal

 Set the following on all impalad coordinators:
            --use_local_catalog=true

 Mixed mode 
 In this mode, only some coordinators are enabled to use the metadata on-demand. 
 We recommend that you use the mixed mode only for testing local catalog’s impact on
            heap usage. 
 Set the following on catalogd:
            --catalog_topic_mode=mixed

 Set the following on impalad coordinators with metdadata on-demand:
            --use_local_catalog=true 

Flags related to use_local_catalog
When use_local_catalog is enabled or set to True on the impalad
          coordinators the following list of flags configure various parameters as described below. It is not
          recommended to change the default values on these flags.
        


The flag local_catalog_cache_mb (defaults to -1) configures the
              size of the catalog cache within each coordinator. With the default set to -1, the
              cache is auto-configured to 60% of the configured Java heap size. Note that the
              Java heap size is distinct from and typically smaller than the overall Impala
              memory limit.
The flag local_catalog_cache_expiration_s (defaults to 3600) configures the
              expiration time of the catalog cache within each impalad. Even if the configured
              cache capacity has not been reached, items are removed from the cache if they have not
              been accessed in the defined amount of time.
The flag local_catalog_max_fetch_retries (defaults to 40) configures
              the maximum number of retries needed for queries to fetch a metadata object from the impalad
              coordinator's local catalog cache.


Limitation:

 HDFS caching is not supported in On-demand metadata mode coordinators.
note In Impala 3.4.0 and above, global INVALIDATE METADATA statement is supported
         when On-demand feature is enabled.

INVALIDATE METADATA Usage Notes:
To return accurate query results, Impala needs to keep the metadata current for the
      databases and tables queried. Through "automatic invalidation" or "HMS event polling" support,
      Impala automatically picks up most changes in metadata from the underlying systems. However
      there are some scenarios where you might need to run INVALIDATE METADATA or
        REFRESH. 
if some other entity modifies information used by Impala in the metastore, the
          information cached by Impala must be updated via INVALIDATE METADATA or
            REFRESH,
if you have "local catalog" enabled without "HMS event polling" and need to pick up
          metadata changes that were done outside of Impala in Hive and other Hive client, such as
          SparkSQL,
and so on.


noteAs this is a very expensive operation compared to the incremental metadata update
            done by the REFRESH statement, when possible, prefer
              REFRESH rather than INVALIDATE METADATA.




