Before you beginCloudera Docs
Before you begin
Before you begin a Data Lake upgrade, note the requirements and limitations listed
    below.
Requirements


Required role to perform Data Lake upgrade:
EnvironmentAdmin or Owner over the environment

The Data Lake must be running and in a healthy state.
You should stop any Data Hubs and any data services (such as CDW or CDE) that
          are running. For the Cloudera Data Warehouse Experience, you should stop any Virtual
          Warehouses that are running prior to beginning any upgrade or backup/restore process.
          Stopping Experiences is not required for service pack upgrades, but any Data Hubs or data
          services that are not stopped will error out during the upgrade process.
If you use a custom image catalog and you don’t see upgrades available, you may need to
          update your custom image catalog with new images.
Expect at least two hours of downtime while the upgrade completes. Plan the
          upgrade during a time of low activity.
Optionally, you can take a backup of the Data Lake. The Data Lake upgrade
          process will automatically take a backup before the upgrade procedure begins, but you have
          the option of disabling the automatic backup if you would prefer to do this step
          separately. For instructions on performing a backup and restore, see Backup and
            restore for the Data Lake. If the upgrade fails for any reason, you can restore
          the Data Lake from the backup.important Even if you are using the automatic
            backup integrated with the Data Lake upgrade flow, verify that you have correctly
            configured the Data Lake backup process. Configuring the backup process includes
            granting the required permissions from the cloud provider side, and adding a RAZ policy
            for RAZ-enabled environments. See Configuring and running Data Lake backups
            for more information on required configurations for backup. You do not need to actually
            run the backup if you plan to use the auto-backup during a Data Lake upgrade.For
              RAZ-enabled AWS environments, it is required that you manually add the RAZ backup
              policy for any AWS Data Lake created with a Runtime version prior to 7.2.15. However,
              for new environments created with a Data Lake running Runtime versions 7.2.15+,
              the RAZ backup policy is automatically configured for RAZ-enabled environments. If
              your Data Lake has been upgraded to 7.2.15 (as opposed to a new Data Lake created with
              7.2.15), you will still have to manually add the RAZ backup policy.For
              RAZ-enabled Azure environments, it is required that you manually add the RAZ backup
              policy for any Azure Data Lake created with a Runtime version prior to 7.2.14.
              However, for new environments created with a Data Lake running Runtime versions
              7.2.14+, the RAZ backup policy is automatically configured for RAZ-enabled
              environments. If your Data Lake has been upgraded to 7.2.14+ (as opposed to a new Data
              Lake created with 7.2.14), you will still have to manually add the RAZ backup
              policy.


The upgrade requires 27 GB space on the CM server node and 20 GB on every other instance.
        If space is insufficient on your Data Lake, upgrade will not be permitted.

Limitations
Note the following limitations for the Data Lake upgrade:


Data Lake upgrade does not include the upgrade of the FreeIPA software or the
            operating system on the instance(s) running FreeIPA. To upgrade FreeIPA, see
              Upgrade FreeIPA. 


Data Lake scaling (moving from a light duty to a medium duty Data Lake)
            during an upgrade is not supported.


Zero-downtime upgrade of Data Lake services is not supported.


If a Data Lake has attached Data Hubs that are not eligible for upgrade, the
            Data Lake itself is not eligible for upgrade. You must delete any Data Hubs that are
            ineligible for upgrade before proceeding with the Data Lake upgrade. See Data Hub
              Upgrade for more information about which Data Hubs are eligible for
            upgrade.


Service pack upgrades for RAZ-enabled Data Lakes are available only for
            Runtime versions 7.2.7+.


Major/minor version upgrades for RAZ-enabled Data Lakes are available only
            for Runtime versions 7.2.12+.




Related informationBackup and restore for the Data LakeUpgrade FreeIPAData Hub UpgradeConfiguring and running Data Lake backupsParent topic: Data Lake upgrade