Restoring to a RAZ Data LakeCloudera Docs
Restoring to a RAZ Data Lake
You can restore a Data Lake backup from a non-RAZ Data Lake to a RAZ Data Lake, or from
    a RAZ Data Lake to a different RAZ Data Lake.
Best Practices
For best results, it’s recommended to use the same Storage Location Base, Logs Location
        Base, and Backup Location Base between the source Data Lake and the destination RAZ Data
        Lake. After the restore, the Ranger policies will be replaced with the policies from the
        original Data Lake. This means that if the Storage Location Base, Log Location Base, and/or
        Backup Location Base are different between the source Data Lake and the destination Data
        Lake, the restored Ranger policies will reference the locations from the source Data
        Lake.



If you intend to use the locations from the source Data Lake, make sure the
              roles associated with the destination RAZ Data Lake have sufficient permissions to
              access the original storage locations.


If you intend to use the destination RAZ Data Lake locations, the Ranger
              policies (cm_s3 for AWS, cm_adls for Azure) will need to be updated to reference the
              correct storage locations after the restore.




Preparing the Data Lakes
Add a Ranger policy to allow the backups to be read from the original backup location. For
        the restore operation, only write permissions are not required. This must be done on both
        the original source Data Lake before the backup is taken, and on the RAZ destination
        Data Lake before the restore is done.
AWS
On the source Data Lake:

Open the Ranger UI.
Go to the cm_s3 policy list.
Add a new policy:
Policy name: restore_to_raz
S3 bucket: The bucket where the original backups were written
Path: The path in the bucket where the original backups were written

Add read permissions for the atlas, hbase, hdfs, and
            solr users under “Allow Conditions”.
Repeat steps on the destination Data Lake.

Azure
Note: The source Data Lake and destination Data Lake must be configured to use the same
        Storage Account for the Log, Storage, and Backup Location Bases. They do not have to be
        configured to use the same Storage Container.
On the source Data Lake:

Open the Ranger UI.
Go to the cm_adls policy list.
Add a new policy:
Policy name: restore_to_raz
Storage Account: The storage account where backups will be stored.
Storage Account Container: The container where backups will be stored.
Path: The path(s) in the bucket where backup will be written.Note: If more than
                  one storage container will be used for backup, create a separate policy for each
                  container.

Add read and list permissions for the atlas, hbase, hdfs, and
            solr users under “Allow Conditions.”
Repeat steps on the destination Data Lake.


Take the backup of the
          non-RAZ data lake
After you prepare the Data Lakes, see Configure backups for a Data Lake for
        instructions on running the backup.

Run the
        restore
After you take the Data Lake backup, see Restore Data Lake content for instructions on
        running the restore. Use the backup-id from the backup taken in the previous step.

After the
        restore
If the Storage Location Base, Logs Location Base, and Backup Locations Base are
        the same between the source Data Lake and the destination Data Lake, this section can be
        skipped.
After the restore, the Ranger policies will be replaced with the policies from
        the original Data Lake. This means that if the Storage Location Base, Log Location Base,
        and/or Backup Location Base are different between the original Data Lake and the RAZ Data
        Lake, the restored Ranger policies will reference the locations from the original Data
        Lake.

If you intend to use the locations from the original Data Lake, make sure the roles
          associated with the RAZ Data Lake have sufficient permissions to access the original
          storage locations.
If intending to use the RAZ Data Lake locations, the Ranger policies (cm_s3 for AWS,
          cm_adls for Azure) will need to be updated to reference the correct storage locations
          after the restore.



Parent topic: Backup and restore for the Data Lake