Data Lake upgradeCloudera Docs
Data Lake upgrade
When new versions or builds of Cloudera Runtime/Cloudera Manager are available for
    the Data Lake service, you can initiate a Data Lake upgrade. An OS upgrade may also be
    available. Use either the CDP CLI or the Management Console to initiate an upgrade.
There are several potential types of Data Lake upgrades:

Runtime and Cloudera Manager version upgrades, called "major/minor version" upgrades,
        which are available when a new Runtime and CM version is released.
Service pack upgrades, which do not change the major/minor Runtime or CM release, but
        upgrade the Data Lake to the latest CM and/or Runtime service packs available in the given
        version. These upgrades are made available as needed and can deliver targeted bug fixes for
        Cloudera Runtime, Cloudera Manager, or both.
OS upgrades, which do not change any CM or Runtime builds, but update the underlying cloud
        image. If an OS upgrade is available along with a major/minor version upgrade, the
        major/minor upgrade will incorporate the OS upgrade. 

The type of upgrade that is available for a Data Lake is explicit on the
        Upgrade tab of the Data Lake details page. Any available upgrades are
      visible in the Target Cloudera Runtime Version drop-down menu. For
      example:
A major/minor version upgrade, where the major/minor versions of
          CM and Runtime are upgraded together:
A service pack upgrade, where no version upgrade is available,
          but a new Cloudera Runtime and/or Cloudera Manager service pack is available for
          upgrade:
An OS upgrade is designated by “(OS Upgrade Only)” when you
          select the drop-down menu:
noteThere are important differences between the nature of major/minor,
      service pack, and OS upgrades. Read the details below carefully to understand which type of
      upgrade is appropriate for your situation.
Process
The Data Lake upgrade process will:
Check for a newer Cloudera Manager and Runtime version or build, and a new OS
            image.
Automatically create a backup of the Data Lake (for major/minor and service pack
            upgrades).
Execute the Data Lake upgrade.
Verify the Data Lake state.


Major/minor version upgrades
Major/minor version upgrades are available as new versions of Cloudera Runtime
        and Cloudera Manager are released. Version upgrades combine a Runtime and CM upgrade into
        one operation. For example, this upgrade might involve upgrading from Runtime 7.2.8 to
        7.2.9, and Cloudera Manager from 7.4.0 to 7.4.1.
Data Lake version upgrades require you to stop all of the Data Hubs in the
        environment before performing the Data Lake upgrade. The upgrade process stops all of the
        Data Lake services, downloads and distributes the new Cloudera Runtime, restarts the
        services, and deletes the old Cloudera Runtime. This process includes launching entirely new
        instance(s) from new cloud image(s). Once the Data Lake upgrade is complete, you can then
        either upgrade your Data Hub clusters to the same version as the Data Lake (if your Data Hub
        cluster type is supported for upgrade), or delete and recreate the clusters with the new
        Data Lake version. If your Data Hub is on Runtime version 7.2.16 or later, it is compatible
        with a Data Lake on a newer Runtime version (7.2.17+). You can independently upgrade your
        Data Hubs at a later time if you choose to, though it is not required
importantCloudera Runtime 7.2.17 has new dependencies that were not present in
        most of the previous Runtime versions. Because of this, you may be unable to upgrade
        directly to this version and future service packs without first upgrading to a more recent
        Runtime version.If you plan to upgrade your existing Data Lakes from a previous release
          to 7.2.17 or later, you can verify whether or not you will first be required to perform an
          additional upgrade step:

Select the Data Lake that you want to upgrade and click on the
                Upgrade tab.
If you see a warning message about missing prerequisites, follow the given steps to
              perform the additional upgrade before you upgrade to 7.2.17.

If your current Runtime version is 7.2.16 or any 7.2.16 service packs, these
          additional steps will include first performing an OS upgrade before upgrading to
          7.2.17.If your current Runtime version is 7.2.12, 7.2.14, or 7.2.15, these steps
          may include upgrading to the most recent service pack of your current Runtime version, as
          well as performing a separate OS upgrade for your current Runtime version, before you can
          perform a major/minor version upgrade to 7.2.17.

Service pack upgrades
The service pack upgrade process checks to see if a new Cloudera Manager or Cloudera
        Runtime (CDP) build is available, and then upgrades the Data Lake to the newest builds.
        Service pack upgrades do not upgrade to a new version of Cloudera Manager or Cloudera
        Runtime; they only upgrade to the latest service pack of a particular version. For example,
        a service pack upgrade cannot take the Data Lake from Runtime version 7.2.11 to version
        7.2.12, but instead upgrades Runtime 7.2.11 to a newer 7.2.11 build. These upgrades are made
        available as needed and can deliver targeted bug fixes for Cloudera Runtime, Cloudera
        Manager, or both. If desired, specific older service packs can also be chosen using the CDP
        CLI. The service pack upgrade process follows the same steps as the version upgrade
        process.

OS upgrades
OS upgrades may be available sporadically as new images are created. OS upgrades are
        typically released to address security vulnerabilities or other issues on the host system.
        The OS upgrade process includes launching entirely new instances with the new OS image. An
        OS upgrade triggers the execution of any pre-service-deployment, post-cluster-manager-start,
        or post-service-deployment recipes.


Data Lake upgrade support matrixThe following Data Lake upgrade paths are supported:Before you beginBefore you begin a Data Lake upgrade, note the requirements and limitations listed     below.Upgrading a Data LakeIf a new Runtime/CM version or build is available for the Data Lake, you can initiate     an upgrade from the Management Console. An OS upgrade may also be available.Upgrading a Data Lake manually via CLIYou can initiate a Data Lake upgrade with the CDP CLI. Using the same CLI command,     you can also search for and validate available images to upgrade to, and generate JSON templates     for specific upgrade scenarios.Recovering from failed upgradesIf a Data Lake upgrade fails and you are unable to manually troubleshoot the problem,     you may be able to use the recovery process to return the cluster to its pre-upgrade state. 