Recovering from failed upgradesCloudera Docs
Recovering from failed upgrades
If a Data Lake upgrade fails and you are unable to manually troubleshoot the problem,
    you may be able to use the recovery process to return the cluster to its pre-upgrade state. 
If FreeIPA is available and the Data Lake cluster is in a recoverable state
      (meaning that there has been an uncorrected failed upgrade or failed recovery), a recovery
      option may be available after a failed upgrade. Recovery after a failed upgrade retains the
      Data Lake CRN, UMS mappings, load balancers, and RDS instance and brings up new instances with
      the original image and Runtime version, but new disks and new databases.noteData backup and
        restore is not currently part of the recovery process. Ensure that you have a Data Lake
        backup from which you can manually restore the Data Lake data after the successful recovery.
        The presence of the backup is not validated by the Management
        Console.

Use the CDP CLI to recover the Data Lake after a failed upgrade:
cdp datalake recover-datalake
--datalake-name <value>
[--recovery-type <value>]

Parameter
Description

--datalake-name
Name or CRN of the Data Lake that you want to recover after a failed
                upgrade.

--recovery-type

The type of the recovery. The default value is RECOVER_WITHOUT_DATA.
Currently, the option RECOVER_WITH_DATA is not supported.  



The status of the Data Lake appears as "Datalake recovery in progress. Recovery
          process takes a while as the nodes are being terminated and new nodes are launched with
          the original runtime."Restore the Data Lake from the pre-upgrade backup. For more information, see
            Restore Data Lake content.If necessary, run the cdp datalake sync-component-versions-from-cm
          command from the CDP CLI.
When an upgrade fails, the versions of Cloudera Manager, Runtime, and other components
            may become out-of-sync with the CDP Management Console. Similarly, if you try to fix
            errors by installing parcels manually, it may not be reflected in the CDP Management
            Console.
To overcome the mismatch between versions reflected in the Management Console, run the
              cdp datalake sync-component-versions-from-cm CDP CLI command. This
            commands reads the CM, Runtime, and other parcel versions (if applicable) from CM and
            updates the versions in the CDP Management Console. Using this command forces the CDP
            Management Console back in sync so that it shows the actual versions installed in CM. 
cdp datalake sync-component-versions-from-cm --datalake-name <datalake name>


Related informationConfiguring and running Data Lake restoreParent topic: Data Lake upgrade