Understanding Data Lake detailsCloudera Docs
Understanding Data Lake details
To access information related to your Data Lake cluster and access cluster actions,
    navigate to the Management Console service > Data Lakes.
Each Data Lake cluster is represented by an entry on the Data Lakes page. To get more
      information about a specific Data Lake cluster, click on the tile representing your
      cluster.
Environment Details
This section includes information related to the CDP environment in which the Data Lake
        cluster is running:



Item
Description



Cloud Provider 
The logo of the cloud provider where the cluster is running.


Name 
The name of the environment used to create the cluster.


Credential
The name of the credential used to create the cluster.


Region
The region in which the cluster is running in the cloud provider
                infrastructure.


Availability Zone
The availability zone within the region in which the cluster is
                running.



Services
Click logos in the Services section to open the user interface for the components that are
        running in the Data Lake cluster.


Cloudera Manager Info
The Cloudera Manager Info section provides the following information:



Item
Description



CM URL
Link to the Cloudera Manager web UI.


CM Version
The Cloudera Manager version which the cluster is currently running.


Platform Version
The Cloudera Runtime platform version which the cluster is currently
                running.



Event History and other tabs
The Data Lake page provides additional details organized in tabs, starting with the
          Event History tab:



Item
Description



Event History
Events logged for the cluster, with the most recent event at the top. The
                  Download option allows you to download the event history to
                a local file. The events are formatted in JSON and compressed.


Hardware
Information about your cluster instances: instance names, instance IDs,
                instance types, their status, fully qualified domain names (FQDNs), and private and
                public IP addresses. Click  to access information about the instance, storage, image,
                and packages installed on the image. 


Cloud Storage
External storage locations for database and files used by Data Lake services,
                such as HMS database, Ranger audit database, HBase files (storage for Atlas
                metadata).


Tags
User-defined tags, listed in the order they were added.


Endpoints
Endpoints for various cluster services, such as the URL for the Ranger user
                interface for defining data access policies.


Recipes
Future home of a list of custom scripts attached to this Data Lake. Each
                "recipe" lists its name, type, and the host group on which it was executed. 


Attached clusters
The workload clusters using the services of this Data Lake; this information
                repeats the list of clusters found in the other tabs of this CDP
                Environment.


Repository Details
Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime repository information, in more detail
                than shown in the Cloudera Manager Info section.


Image Details
Cluster node base image details.


Network
Names of the network and subnet in which the cluster is running and the links
                to the related cloud provider console


Telemetry
The instance profile and cloud storage location specified during environment
                setup under Log Storage and Audits for service logs.



Show CLI Command
You can click the Show CLI Command button to review the CLI command
        used to create the Data Lake, and copy it if you want to create a similar Data Lake through
        the CDP CLI. Ensure that any Data Lake that you create has a unique name. For more
        information on the CDP CLI commands to create a Data Lake, review the CLI documentation for Data Lakes. 


