Data Lake storageCloudera Docs
Data Lake storage
Data Lake storage leverages the security and high-availability
    guarantees from the cloud provider, allowing Data Lakes to regenerate hosts
    as needed, without data loss and with little or no downtime for workload
    services. 
Data Lake storage is designed to reside in external storage locations
     separate from the hosts running the Data Lake services. This configuration
     protects CDP workloads from data loss should one or all of the Data Lake
     nodes fail. New hosts created in the Data Lake repair process are
     re-attached to the persistent data storage and Data Lake services return to
   normal.
The following table provides links to information from cloud providers
      about the service level guarantees they provide for each storage type.


AWS
Azure
GCP
Component Storage Content




Amazon RDS
See Automated backups, snapshots, and automatic host replacement.


Azure Database for PostgreSQL
See Availability guarantees.


Google Cloud SQL
See Cloud SQL.


HMS SQL catalog
Ranger policy data
Cloudera Manager metadata




Amazon S3
See Availability and durability guarantees.


Azure Disk Storage
See Resiliency and disaster recovery protections.


Google Cloud Storage
See Google Cloud Storage.


Ranger audits
Component logs
HMS /warehouse directories




Amazon EBS
See Availability and durability levels.


Azure Managed Disks
See Availability and durability levels. 


Google Persistent Disk
See Persistent Disk.


Atlas search index (Solr)
Kafka data (to support Atlas)
Zookeeper metadata



Data Lake storage is created when a Data Lake is instantiated for an
     environment. When an environment is no longer needed and is terminated, the
   corresponding Data Lake is terminated and the external storage is cleaned up.
Data Lake storage persists through a Data Lake repair cycle; new hosts
     created in the repair are re-attached to the storage locations.
noteAny S3 bucket that you designate for Data Lake cloud storage on AWS must be in the same
      region as the environment. 

Parent topic: Introduction to Data Lakes