Data Lake repairCloudera Docs
Data Lake repair
If a Data Lake node fails, an administrator can trigger a manual
    repair process to restore the failed node and reconnect it to the persistent
    Data Lake storage.
For each Data Lake cluster, CDP detects the following failures indicate
      that one or more nodes needs repair:

The node is unresponsive, from a crash or termination
The Cloudera Manager agent process is unresponsive

noteThere may be failure modes that are not exposed at the level of the CDP
     Data Lake. If you encounter a service that is not responsive or is running
     but giving unexpected or incorrect results, no error will appear in the
     Data Lake details. Service-level errors should be managed through Cloudera
     Manager. For example, from Cloudera Manager, you can review the service's
     logs to determine the cause of the problem, make changes to the service
     configuration, and restart the service. 
When CDP detects a node failure, a CDP administrator has the option to
      repair the failure manually. Note that during the repair process, the Data
      Lake services are not available to the attached workload clusters.
      Therefore, before triggering a Data Lake repair, consider stopping any
      jobs running on your workload clusters and restarting them after the Data
      Lake is restored. Audits and metadata will continue to be queued for
      collection through the restoration process.
When a node fails, you'll see a notification about node failure printed in the
        Event History tab for the Data Lake, the affected node is marked as
      unhealthy in the Hardware tab, and a button to start the repair process
      appears at the top of the Data Lake details. You can also select the
        Repair icon next to a host group on the
        Hardware tab to select specific nodes for repair. When your CDP
      administrator triggers node repair, the repair process:

Detaches all non-ephemeral disks from the failed nodes. 
Removes the failed nodes.
Provisions new nodes of the same type, no upgrades are applied. 
Reattaches the disks to the new volumes.
Reconnects services to the external database. 


Related informationPerforming manual Data Lake repairData Lake storageCloudera Manager Health TestsCloudera Manager logsParent topic: Introduction to Data Lakes