Upgrading a Data LakeCloudera Docs
Upgrading a Data Lake
If a new Runtime/CM version or build is available for the Data Lake, you can initiate
    an upgrade from the Management Console. An OS upgrade may also be available.
In most cases it is not required that you destroy/recreate any
      Data Hubs attached to the Data Lake cluster. For major/minor version upgrades, you must
      upgrade the Data Hubs themselves after you upgrade the Data Lake, with the exception of Data
      Hubs on Runtime version 7.2.16 and later. If your Data Hub is on Runtime version 7.2.16 or
      later, it is compatible with a Data Lake on a newer Runtime version (7.2.17+). You can
      independently upgrade your Data Hubs at a later time if you choose to, though it is not
      required. Any Data Hubs or data services that are not stopped during a Data Lake upgrade
        will error out during the upgrade process.Required role:
EnvironmentAdmin or Owner over the environment
Stop all Data Hubs attached to the environment.
From the Management Console, click Data
              Lakes > <Environment Name>, scroll to
          the bottom of the Data Lake details page, and click the Upgrade
          tab.
Click the Target Cloudera Runtime Version drop-down menu to
          see any available upgrades for a given Runtime version.If a new build is available for the selected version, the UI displays the current and target
          versions and build numbers. If only an OS upgrade is available, the UI displays “(OS
          upgrade only).”When a major/minor version upgrade is
              available, you'll be able to select a new Runtime version:If you want to skip the automatic backup that is taken before the upgrade, uncheck
          the Automatic backup box. For more information on what is backed up
          during a Data Lake backup, see Data Lake backup and restore.Click Validate and Prepare to check for any configuration issues and begin
          the Cloudera Runtime parcel download and distribution. Using the validate and prepare
          option does not require downtime and makes the maintenance window for an upgrade shorter.
          Validate and prepare also does not make any changes to your cluster and can be run
          independently of the upgrade itself. Although you can begin the upgrade without first
          running the validate and prepare option, using it will make the process smoother and the
          downtime shorter.Click Upgrade to initiate the upgrade.Click the Event History tab to monitor the upgrade process
          and verify that it completes successfully.If the upgrade fails for any reason,
          check the Data Lake logs through Cloudera Manager for troubleshooting information and
          retry the upgrade. If you cannot fix the problem manually, you may be able to recover the
          Data Lake cluster after a failed upgrade.  For more information see Recovering from
            failed upgrades.
For major/minor upgrades, if the upgrade is successful, you
      can proceed to upgrading your attached Data Hubs if required. Data Hub clusters must run the
      same Runtime version as the Data Lake, with the exception of Data Hubs on Runtime version
      7.2.16 and later. If your Data Hub is on Runtime version 7.2.16 or later, it is compatible
      with a Data Lake on a newer Runtime version (7.2.17+). You can independently upgrade your Data
      Hubs at a later time if you choose to, though it is not required. For service pack and OS
      upgrades, you can restart your Data Hubs, data services, and any stopped Virtual
      Warehouses.

Related informationBackup and restore for the Data LakeRecovering from failed upgradesParent topic: Data Lake upgrade