Vertically scaling instance typesCloudera Docs
Vertically scaling instance types
If necessary, you can select a larger or smaller instance type for a Data Hub or Data
    Lake cluster after it has been deployed.
You must stop the Data Lake or Data Hub cluster before you
      vertically scale any of the instances.
Selecting a larger instance type adds more vCPU and/or RAM to
      your instances. Instances can be scaled both up and down, but scaling down to a smaller size
      requires 4 CPU and a minimum of 4 GB memory.If you are using an instance without ephemeral
        disks, you can scale up or down to a new instance with ephemeral disks; however, the reverse
        is not supported. You cannot start with an instance with ephemeral disks and move to an
        instance without ephemeral disks.Vertical scaling is supported on AWS only.
        EBS-backed instances must be stopped before scaling. See Change the instance type in AWS documentation for
        more information.For information on vertically scaling FreeIPA, see Vertically scale FreeIPA
        instances.

In the CDP main navigation menu, click Data Hubs or
            Data Lakes and select the cluster that requires a larger instance
          type.Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the Nodes
          tab.Click the Vertical Scaling icon on the top right of the host
          group that you want to scale.

Select a larger instance type from the drop-down menu of suggested instance
          types.

Click Scale. You can monitor the action from the
            Event History tab. Alternatively, you can use the CDP
          CLI to select a new instance for the Data Lake or Data Hub cluster:Data Lake
            cluster:cdp datalake start-datalake-vertical-scaling 
--datalake <your-data-lake-name-or-its-crn> 
--group <master> 
--instance-template instanceType="<m5.4xlarge>"Data
            Hub
          cluster:cdp datahub start-cluster-vertical-scaling 
--datahub <your-data-hub-name-or-its-crn> 
--group <master> 
--instance-template instanceType="<m5.4xlarge>"
After you have vertically scaled the cluster, configure the
      services on the cluster to use the additional or reduced resources/memory.

