Options for generating the CDP Private Cloud diagnostic dataCloudera Docs
Options for generating the CDP Private Cloud diagnostic data
You can specify various options on the Collect and Send Diagnostic
            Data pop-up window to generate CDP Private Cloud diagnostic data based on
        your specific requirements of duration, scope, and size.
Duration
Select the duration for which you want to generate the diagnostic data.
You can select from the following options:
No Time Limit: Select this value if you want all the
                        diagnostic data to be generated from the time you deployed CDP Private
                        Cloud.
Recent Time Range: Select a specified time range, in
                        hours, from the drop-down list.




Custom Time Range: Select the start date and end date
                        between which you want to generate the diagnostic data. 






Scope
Select the services for which you want to collect the diagnostic data.
You can select environment- and workload-related options from the following:

All Environments and Control Plane: Select this option to
                    generate the diagnostic data for all the environments and workloads deployed on
                    CDP Private Cloud.


Environment: Select one or more environments from the
                    drop-down list to generate the diagnostic data. You can also use regular
                    expressions to filter the name of environments for which you want to generate
                    the diagnostic data.
Custom: You can filter your selections to specific
                    environments and workloads, and accordingly generate the diagnostic data.You
                        must click Add Scope to select an environment and
                        provide information about its associated workloads for which you want to
                        generate the diagnostic data. The details include the following:
Workload Status: For a selected environment,
                                specify the option to select either a live or an archived
                                workload.
Workload Type: For a
                                    Live workload status, you can specify the
                                option to select CDW or CML or CDE.
Workload Name: For a selected workload type,
                                you can specify the names of the workloads for which you want to
                                generate the diagnostic data. You can add a single workload or
                                multiple workloads as comma-separated values. If required, you can
                                use regular expressions to filter the workload names.
Namespace: For an
                                    Archived workload status, specify the
                                Kubernetes namespace corresponding to the workloads for which you
                                want to generate the diagnostic data. You can add a single namespace
                                or multiple namespaces as comma-separated values. If required, you
                                can use regular expressions to filter the namespace values.
Pod: For an Archived
                                workload status, specify the OpenShift pods on which the workloads
                                are archived. You can add a single pod or multiple pods as
                                comma-separated values. If required, you can use regular expressions
                                to filter the names of the pods.note

If you do not specify any namespace, workload name, or
                                            pod, Management Console generates diagnostic data for
                                            all the namespaces, workloads, and pods associated with
                                            the specified environment-workload type
                                            combination.
Ensure that any regular expression that you use on the
                                            Collect and Send Diagnostic Data pop-up window is
                                            anchored by a ^ symbol at the beginning
                                            of the expression and a $ symbol at the
                                            end.





Size
You can specify the size of the diagnostic data to collect. The default size of the
                data after compression is 500 MB. If you want to change the default size, set the
                    BUNDLE_SIZE_LIMIT_MB environment variable on the OpenShift pods
                on your CDP Private Cloud deployment.noteThe actual size of the generated
                    diagnostic bundle might vary from the size that you specify.While CDP can
                        exclude namespace pod logs, control plane archive logs, and other archive
                        logs from the diagnostic bundle to be consistent with the specified size,
                        CDP must always include certain type of diagnostic data in the bundle.
                        Because the size of the diagnostic data that is always included in a bundle
                        is not constant, the overall size of the generated diagnostic bundle might
                        vary.


Parent topic: Working with CDP Private Cloud diagnostic data