Configuring alert receiversCloudera Docs
Configuring alert receivers
You can configure alert receivers on Management Console to trigger automated
        system-specific event notifications through external services such as emails, Slack channel
        messages, webhook notifications, PagerDuty messages, or SNMP traps. By configuring an alert
        receiver, you specify the details of an external service through which Management Console
        forwards the notification to the specified destination.


You can configure alert receivers only if you have administrator
                    privileges.
Make sure you have the details of the external services for which you are
                    configuring the alert receiver. 
If your CDP Private Cloud deployment is air gapped, you must have services
                    available within your internal network that can help forward the notifications.
                    For example, you must have one or more of the following services internally
                    available: an SMTP server, a gateway or a proxy that can forward the
                    notifications to external systems, a webhook endpoint that can externally
                    forward the notifications, or an SNMP server.Further, you must configure your
                        firewall policies to enable outgoing traffic to external systems.



Sign in to the CDP console.

Click Management Console.

On the Management Console home page, select
                        Administration>Alerts to view
                    the Alerts page.

In the Alert Receivers section of the page, click Add Alert
                        Receiver.

Configure the following options for adding an alert receiver in the pop-up
                    window:

note

You can configure only one alert receiver of type SNMP
                                at a time.
If your CDP Private Cloud Data Services cluster is deployed using the
                                Experiences Compute Services (ECS), then Cloudera Manager
                                automatically imports at the time of installation any non-default
                                SMTP and SNMP alert configurations from the CDP Private Cloud Base
                                cluster. Accordingly, alert receivers of type SNMP and SMTP are
                                automatically configured when deploying Management Console for the
                                first time.




Field
Description



Alert
                                            Scope


Severity
The severity of the alert notifications to configure. You
                                        can select notifications of either Warning, or Critical, or
                                        both the types.


Source
The Management Console services for which you want to
                                        configure the alert notifications. You can select to
                                        configure notifications for the environments, or the control
                                        plane, or all the environments and control plane.


Receiver Type
The type of external service that receives the alert
                                        notification from Management Console. You can select from
                                        the following types:
Email
Slack
Webhook
PagerDuty
SNMP



Email


Email To
The destination email address to which the alert
                                        notification email must be forwarded.


Email From
The source email address from where the alert
                                        notification email must be forwarded.


SMTP Server
The URL of the SMTP server through which the alert
                                        notification email is forwarded. You must specify the host
                                        name and port number as part of the SMTP server URL.


User name
The username to access the SMTP server.


Password
The password to access the SMTP server.


Connection Requires TLS
Toggle this option to On if you
                                        have a secure connection configured between your CDP Private
                                        Cloud deployment and the SMTP server such that the SMTP
                                        server's certificate is trusted by CDP Private
                                        Cloud.


Slack


API URL
The URL of the Slack API associated with the channel to
                                        which the notification must be sent.


Channel
The name of the Slack channel. You can specify any name
                                        here for your reference because the Slack API derives the
                                        actual name from the specified URL.


Webhook


URL
The URL of the webhook endpoint to which the alert
                                        notification must be sent.


Basic Auth User Name
The username for basic authentication to the webhook
                                        application. 


Basic Auth Password
The password for basic authentication to the webhook
                                        application.


Bearer Token
The authentication header in case of using a bearer
                                        token.


Skip TLS Verification (Insecure)
Toggle this option to On if you
                                        have a secure connection configured between your CDP Private
                                        Cloud deployment and the webhook application. For the secure
                                        connection, you must use a certificate trusted by CDP
                                        Private Cloud. 


PagerDuty


URL
The URL of the PagerDuty platform to which the
                                        notification must be sent.


Routing Key
The PagerDuty Events API v2 integration key. For details,
                                        see PagerDuty Services and Integrations.


SNMP


SNMP NMS Hostname
The DNS name or IP address of the SNMP Network Management
                                        Software (NMS) host listening for SNMP traps or
                                        notifications.


SNMP Server Port
The port number on which the SNMP server is listening for
                                        traps or notifications.


SNMP Retry Count
The maximum number of times to try an SNMP trap before
                                        the latter times out. If you specify '0', the trap is sent
                                        only once.


SNMP Timeout (Milliseconds)
The time, in milliseconds, to wait after which an SNMP
                                        trap times out.


SNMP Security Level
The level of security to use if you the select SNMPv3
                                        protocol for the alert receiver. You can select either
                                            authNoPriv or
                                            noauthNoPriv security level. The
                                        details that you need to specify vary with the security
                                        level that you select.You can also select the SNMPv2
                                            protocol, if required.


SNMPv2 Community String
The community string for identifying the SNMP service.
                                        Generated SNMPv2 traps use this string for authentication
                                        purposes. Specify this value if you select
                                            SNMPv2 as the SNMP
                                            Security Level.


SNMP Authentication Protocol
The authentication algorithm. The available options are
                                            MD5 and
                                            SHA. Specify this value if you
                                        select authNoPriv as the
                                            SNMP Security Level.


SNMP Server Engine Id
Used along with the pass phrase to generate keys for
                                        authentication and privacy protocols. The Engine ID is a
                                        hexadecimal number. Specify this value if you select
                                            authNoPriv as the SNMP
                                            Security Level.


SNMP Security Username
The name of the user to add for SNMP security. Specify
                                        this value if you select either
                                            authNoPriv or
                                            noauthNoPriv as the SNMP
                                            Security Level.


SNMP Authentication Protocol Pass Phrase
The pass phrase to use for the SNMP authentication
                                        protocol. Specify this value if you select
                                            authNoPriv as the SNMP
                                            Security Level.


Test receiver
                                            parameters


Send Test Event
After providing the details to configure the external
                                        service, you can send a test notification to verify whether
                                        the message reaches the desired destination.




Click Add Alert Receiver.
The Alert Receivers page now displays the details of the receiver that you
                    just added.
Optional: 
Repeat steps 4 and 5 to add more alert receivers.

noteIf you want to edit the details of an alert receiver, select
                            Edit Alert Receiver from the drop-down menu
                        against that receiver entry, and update the desired fields. You can access
                        the drop-down menu by clicking the vertical ellipsis (three dots) against
                        the particular receiver entry on the table. Similarly, if you want to
                            delete an alert receiver, select Delete Alert
                                Receiver, from the drop-down menu against that receiver
                            entry.



Parent topic: Configuring alerts for CDP Private Cloud