Updating TLS certificatesCloudera Docs
Updating TLS certificates
From the Management Console of your CDP Private Cloud deployment, you can update TLS
        certificates that CDP uses to make secure connections with different types of services and
        workloads. For specified services, you can update the certificates whenever you rotate
        them.
You must ensure that all the services for which you want to
            update the certificates are TLS-enabled.

importantThe following procedure causes a restart of the dependent
                services after you have added the certificate. Therefore, Cloudera recommends that
                you plan for a down time before performing this procedure.


Sign in to the CDP console.

Click Management Console.

On the Management Console home page, select
                        Administration>CA
                    Certificates.

From the CA Certificate Type dropdown list, select the
                    type of service for which you want to upload a new TLS certificate.
You can select from the following options for the types of secure
                        connections:
Datalake: For secure connections with the CDP
                            Private Cloud Base cluster services and Cloudera Manager.
Docker Registry: For a secure connection with the
                            Docker Container registry containing the images for deployment.
External Database: For a secure connection with
                            an external PostgreSQL database.
External Vault: For a secure connection with an
                            external vault.
Miscellaneous: For a secure connection with
                            services used during the installation and run time of CDP. For example,
                            Custom Ingress, Custom Kubernetes API, and so on.importantIf your CDP Private Cloud deployment uses an external vault, then
                                after updating the certificates for these services, you must
                                reconfigure the certificates with the vault to ensure that it
                                validates the certificates. For more information, see Updating custom certificates


Select the option to either browse and upload a certificate or directly enter
                    the certificate details.

important The certificate must be in the X.509 PEM format and
                        structured as follows: ----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----..-----END
                                CERTIFICATE----- .



Updating custom certificatesIn a CDP Private Cloud deployment configured with an external     vault, the CDP Management services such as Custom Ingress and Custom     Kubernetes API authenticate to the vault with the help of the     ServiceAccount's JSON Web Token (JWT) attached to the Kubernetes pod on     which the services are running. The vault service validates the JWTs using     the Kubernetes TokenReview API, and verifies the existence of the services.     However,  if the external service dependency being updated uses an entirely     new CA certificate that CDP Private Cloud Data Services     is not currently configured to trust, then that CA certificate should be     updated in CDP Private Cloud Data Services     first, then the certificate of the service dependency can be     updated.