Working with CDP Private Cloud diagnostic dataCloudera Docs
Working with CDP Private Cloud diagnostic data
CDP Private Cloud enables you to generate and download diagnostic data associated
        with the various services and workloads for troubleshooting purposes. You can perform these
        tasks from the Diagnostic Data tab of the Management
        Console.
CDP Private Cloud uses fluentd to collect logs from the Management Console
            services, and the CML, CDW, and CDE workloads. If Ozone is configured to store logs from
            the workloads, the information collected by fluentd is stored on Ozone.
            Otherwise, the data is moved through a fluentd aggregator in the
            Management Console to an OpenShift persistent volume where all the Management Console
            logs are also stored.
When an administrator selects the option to generate the diagnostic bundle from the
                Management Console > Administration >
                Diagnostic Data page, Management Console generates a bundle
            containing the following details after querying the relevant components and services:
Logs from the OpenShift persistent volume
CDW, CML, and CDE logs stored on Ozone
Kubernetes deployment information such as events, logs, details of the OpenShift
                    pods and so on.
Metrics for monitoring such as usage information and so on.
Management Console information such as version, UUID, and so on.


Collecting CDP Private Cloud diagnostic dataYou can collect and download CDP Private Cloud diagnostic data for different         components and services from the Administration page of the         Management Console. In addition, you can specify the type of workloads and the duration for         which you want to collect the diagnostic data.Options for generating the CDP Private Cloud diagnostic dataYou can specify various options on the Collect and Send Diagnostic             Data pop-up window to generate CDP Private Cloud diagnostic data based on         your specific requirements of duration, scope, and size.CDP Private Cloud Data Services diagnostic dataYou can collect and download CDP Private Cloud Data Services         diagnostic data using the Diagnostic Data tab on the Administration         page of the Management Console. This topic lists the diagnostic data that is generated. 