Configuring alert rulesCloudera Docs
Configuring alert rules
You can define alert rules for your CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment based on
            PromQL expressions. The alerts are automatically triggered when
        specific events occur in your deployment. You can view the triggered alerts on the
        Management Console dashboard. Further, any alert receivers that you have already configured
        start sending notifications to specified endpoints.
You can configure alert rules only if you have
            administrator privileges.

Management Console supports two types of alert rules: built-in and custom. 
Built-in alert rules are system-generated, and therefore, you cannot add or
                        remove them. You can only enable, disable, or edit certain details
                        associated with them. 
You can create custom alert rules based on your requirements. Further, you
                        can edit, delete, enable, or disable them.



Sign in to the CDP console.

Click Management Console.

On the Management Console home page, select
                        Administration>Alerts to view
                    the Alerts page.

In the Alert Rules section of the page, click Add Alert
                        Rule.

Configure the following options for adding an alert rule in the pop-up
                    window:



Field
Description



Name
The name of the alert rule. You cannot use spaces or
                                            special characters in the name.


Severity
The severity of the alert rules to configure. You can
                                        select rules of severity Critical or
                                            Warning.


Enable Alert
Select this checkbox to ensure that the alert rule is
                                        enabled at the time of creation. 


Message
The text of the alert rule. You can use PromQL labels to
                                        denote entities such as jobs in the text.For more
                                            information about using PromQL labels, see Alerting
                                                Rules.


Summary
Overview text of the alert rule.


For Clause
The duration for which the PromQL expression must be
                                        true. If the expression continues to be true after the
                                        specified duration, then the configured alert is
                                        automatically triggered.


Source
The Management Console services for which you want to
                                        configure the alert rules.You can select one of the
                                            following options as the source: 
All Environments and Control
                                                  Plane
Environments
Control Plane
A specific environment from the list of
                                                  configured environments



Workload Type
For a selected source, the type of workload to which the
                                        alert rule applies. You can select workloads of type Data
                                        Warehouse, Machine Learning, Infrastructure, or all these
                                        types.


PromQL Expression
The query expression in PromQL. The alert is issued when
                                        this expression is true for the time period specified in
                                            For Clause. importantMetrics reported by the environments
                                            always contain the following labels:
                                                appId and appName.
                                            Therefore, the result of the alert rule's query
                                            expression also must contain these labels. To ensure
                                            that the result contains the labels, include the
                                                by (appId, appName) clause when
                                            using aggregation operators in the query expression. For
                                            example, instead of the count(my_metric) >
                                                0 expression, use the
                                                count(my_metric) by (appId, appName) >
                                                0 expression.


Generated Query
The query that is generated for a selected workload type
                                        depending on the specified PromQL expression. You can
                                            view the query by clicking Show Generated
                                                Query.


Test PromQL Expression
You can click this option to test the query expression
                                        generated for the combination of a selected source and
                                        workload type. If you select one of All
                                                Environments and Control Plane,
                                                Environments, or
                                                Control Plane as the source
                                            for the PromQL query, it runs only on the
                                            control plane. To run the query on an environment, you
                                            must select a specific environment as the
                                            source.noteIf you click this
                                            option before saving the alert rule and if
                                            the PromQL expression is invalid, then an unexpected
                                            error appears. In addition, you might lose all the
                                            information entered for configuring the alert rule.
                                            Therefore, you must save the alert rule and then test
                                            the PromQL expression.




Click Add Alert Rule.
The page now displays the details of the alert rule that you just
                    added.
Optional: 
Repeat steps 4 and 5 to add more alert rules.


Parent topic: Configuring alerts for CDP Private Cloud