Configuration propertiesCloudera Docs
Configuration properties
Use the NameNode and DataNode properties to configure the NameNode and
      DataNodes.

dfs.namenode.name.dir

Specifies where on the local filesystem the DFS name node stores
                                the name table (fsimage). If this is a comma-delimited
                                list of directories then the name table is replicated in all of the
                                directories, for redundancy.

dfs.namenode.edits.dir

Specifies where on the local filesystem the DFS name node stores
                                the transaction (edits) file. If this is a
                                comma-delimited list of directories, the transaction file is
                                replicated in all of the directories, for redundancy. The default
                                value is set to the same value as
                                dfs.namenode.name.dir.

dfs.namenode.checkpoint.period

Specifies the number of seconds between two periodic
                                checkpoints.

dfs.namenode.checkpoint.txns

The standby creates a checkpoint of the namespace every
                                    dfs.namenode.checkpoint.txns transactions,
                                regardless of whether dfs.namenode.checkpoint.period
                                has expired.

dfs.namenode.checkpoint.check.period

Specifies how frequently to query for the number of
                                un-checkpointed transactions.

dfs.namenode.num.checkpoints.retained

Specifies the number of image checkpoint files to be retained in
                                storage directories. All edit logs necessary to recover an
                                up-to-date namespace from the oldest retained checkpoint are also
                                retained.

dfs.namenode.num.extra.edits.retained

Specifies the number of extra transactions which are retained
                                beyond what is minimally necessary for a NN restart. This can be
                                useful for audit purposes or for an HA setup where a remote Standby
                                Node might have been offline and need to have a longer backlog of
                                retained edits to start again.

dfs.namenode.edit.log.autoroll.multiplier.threshold

Specifies when an active namenode rolls its own edit log. The
                                actual threshold (in number of edits) is determined by
                                multiplying this value by
                                    dfs.namenode.checkpoint.txns. This prevents
                                extremely large edit files from accumulating on the active namenode,
                                which can cause timeouts during namenode start-up and pose an
                                administrative hassle. This behavior is intended as a fail-safe for
                                when the standby fails to roll the edit log by the normal checkpoint
                                threshold.

dfs.namenode.edit.log.autoroll.check.interval.ms

Specifies the time in milliseconds that an active namenode checks
                                if it needs to roll its edit log.

dfs.datanode.data.dir

Determines where on the local filesystem an DFS data node should
                                store its blocks. If this is a comma-delimited list of directories,
                                then data is stored in all named directories, typically on different
                                devices. Directories that do not exist are ignored. Heterogeneous
                                storage allows specifying that each directory resides on a different
                                type of storage: DISK, SSD,
                                    ARCHIVE or
                                RAM_DISK.



Parent topic: HDFS commands for metadata files and directories