Create a snapshot policyCloudera Docs
Create a snapshot policy
You can use Cloudera Manager to create snapshot policies for a directory.
The directory for which you want to create a snapshot policy
            must be snapshottable.

Select Backup  > Snapshot Policies in the left navigation bar.
Existing snapshot policies are shown in a table on the Snapshot
                        Policies page.

Click Create Snapshot Policy.
The Create Snapshot Policy window displays.

From the drop-down list, select the service (HDFS or HBase) and cluster for
                    which you want to create a policy.

Provide a name for the policy and, optionally, a description.

Specify the directories, namespaces or tables to include in the snapshot.

importantDo not take snapshots of the root directory.

For an HDFS service, select the paths of the directories to include in
                            the snapshot. The drop-down list allows you to select only directories
                            that are enabled for snapshot creation. If no directories are enabled
                            for snapshot creation, a warning displays.Click  to add a path
                                and  to
                                remove a path.
For an HBase service, list the tables to include in your snapshot. You
                            can use a Java regular expression to
                            specify a set of tables. For example, finance.* match
                            all tables with names starting with finance. You can
                            also create a snapshot for all tables in a given namespace, using the
                                    {namespace}:.* syntax.



Specify the snapshot Schedule. 
You can schedule snapshots hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly, or any
                    combination of those. Depending on the frequency you select, you can specify the
                    time of day to take the snapshot, the day of the week, day of the month, or
                    month of the year, and the number of snapshots to keep at each interval. Each
                    time unit in the schedule information is shared with the time units of larger
                    granularity. That is, the minute value is shared by all the selected schedules,
                    hour by all the schedules for which hour is applicable, and so on. For example,
                    if you specify that hourly snapshots are taken at the half hour, and daily
                    snapshots taken at the hour 20, the daily snapshot will occur at 20:30.

Specify whether Alerts should be generated for various
                    state changes in the snapshot workflow.
You can alert on failure, on start, on success, or when the snapshot workflow
                    is aborted.

Click Save Policy.
The new Policy displays on the Snapshot Policies
                    page.


Parent topic: Managing snapshot policies using Cloudera Manager