Using HDFS snapshots for data protectionCloudera Docs
Using HDFS snapshots for data protection
HDFS snapshots enable you to capture point-in-time copies of the file system and
        protect your important data against user or application errors. Cloudera recommends that you
        take snapshots of specified subtrees on the file system.
Using snapshots to protect data is efficient because of the following reasons:
Snapshot creation is instantaneous regardless of the size and depth of the
                    directory subtree.
Snapshots capture the block list and file size for a specified subtree.
                    Snapshots do not create extra copies of blocks on the file system.

You can either use the command-line interface or Cloudera Manager to manage HDFS
            snapshots.

Considerations for working with HDFS snapshotsYou can create snapshots only for directories that allow the creation of snapshots.         If a directory already contains snapshots, you cannot delete or rename the directory unless         you remove all the snapshots.Enable snapshot creation on a directoryYou must enable snapshot creation on a directory before creating snapshots on that         directory. If the snapshot creation is enabled, the directory becomes             snapshottable.Create snapshots on a directoryYou can create snapshots on a specified directory and protect your important         data.Recover data from a snapshotIf data is erroneously removed from a directory for which snapshots are available,         you can recover the lost data using snapshots. The snapshot ensures that the file blocks         corresponding to the deleted files or directories are not removed from the file system. Only         the metadata is modified to reflect the deletion.Options to determine differences between contents of snapshotsRun the hdfs snapshotDiff command for a report that lists the         difference between the contents of two snapshots. Run the distcp diff         command to determine the difference between contents of specified source and target         snapshots, and use the command with the -update option to move the         difference to a specified target directory.CLI commands to perform snapshot operationsAs an administrator, you can enable or disable snapshot creation on a directory.         These operations require the superuser privilege. As a user; you can create, delete, or         rename snapshots on a directory that has snapshot creation enabled. These operations require         either the superuser privilege or the owner privilege on the directory.Managing snapshot policies using Cloudera ManagerCloudera Manager enables the creation of snapshot policies that define the         directories or tables for which snapshots should be taken, the intervals at which snapshots         should be taken, and the number of snapshots that should be kept for each snapshot         interval.Enable and disable snapshot creation using Cloudera ManagerFor snapshots to be created, HDFS directories must be enabled for snapshots. You         cannot specify a directory as part of a snapshot policy unless it has been enabled for         snapshots.Create snapshots using Cloudera ManagerYou can use Cloudera Manager to create snapshots on a snapshottable         directory.Delete snapshots using Cloudera ManagerYou can use Cloudera Manager select from a snapshot configured for a directory and         delete it.Parent topic: Data protection