Creating a Database CatalogCloudera Docs
Creating a Database Catalog
How you activate the environment determines key capabilities of CDW, such as what
        data you can access. You learn how to set up the Database Catalog from the Data Warehouse
        UI.
 The type of Data Lake used by the Database Catalog for your Virtual Warehouse
            determines whether or not you can access data in Data Hubs, and other clusters, from
            CDW. A Database Catalog can use different Data Lake types, including Shared Data
            Experience (SDX) and Data Warehouse (DWX) Data Lake
                types.The
                DWX Database Catalog shares the HMS database with HMS in the Data Hub cluster. You
                can access any objects or data sets created in the Data Mart or the Data Engineering
                clusters from CDW Virtual Warehouses and vice versa. The CDW service sets up the
                Kubernetes cluster, which provides the computing resources for the Database Catalog.
                The CDW service to use the existing data lake that was set up for the environment,
                including all data, metadata, and security. The following procedure shows you steps
                to create a Database Catalog using a DWX Data Lake.


Assuming you just registered an environment, navigate from Environments to
                    Cloudera Data Warehouse Overview.

Click Activate the environment for CDW.

In the Data Warehouse service, in Create, click See More > New Database Catalog.






In Name, specify a Database Catalog name.

In Environments, select the name of your environment.

If you do not see the environment you want in the drop-down list, you might
                        need to activate the environment. 


In Database Catalog Image Version, select the Hive version for constructing the Hive
                    Metastore.

In Data Lake, select DWX.






Click Create to create the new Database Catalog.


Parent topic: Getting started in CDW