Granting CDP users and groups access to Cloudera Data Warehouse serviceCloudera Docs
Granting CDP users and groups access to Cloudera Data Warehouse service
You assign the DWAdmin and DWUser roles to users and groups who must use or manage
    Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on public
    cloud environments. 

Required role: PowerUser
To give CDP users access to the CDW service, you grant the DWAdmin or the DWUser resource
        roles to users on environments. You are granting permission to the environments that are
        used to create Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses, and not directly to CDW
        service.
To give CDP groups access to the CDW service, you create the group in the User Management
        module of the Management Console. See the Management Console documentation for details. Then
        you follow the instructions in this task to grant the group access to an environment.
        Similar to granting users access to the CDW service, you grant permission to the group to
        access the environments that are used to create Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses,
        not directly to CDW service. importantWhen you grant access to groups, you
          must grant the DWAdmin resource role to the group instead of the DWUser role.


Log in to the CDP web UI using your corporate credentials or other credentials
                that your administrator gave to you.

In the left navigation menu, click Environments.

Search for the environment you want to grant access to, and then click the environment
          name. 

In the environment's Clusters page, click the Actions drop-down
          menu on the right, and select Manage Access. 

In the Access page, in the Select group or user text box,
              type the name of the user or group you want to add, and then click that user or
              group's name. 

In Update Resource Roles for…, select the DWAdmin or
            DWUser or both roles, and then click Update
            Roles.
 You should receive a success message.

Click the environment name at the top of the page to navigate back to the Clusters
          page.

In the Clusters page, click Actions, and select
            Synchronize Users to FreeIPA. 
Depending on how many users have access to the environment, this synchronization process can take a few seconds or a few minutes.

The users and groups you have granted the DWAdmin or DWUser resource roles to can
        now use CDW service with the environment.

Parent topic: Getting started in CDW