Getting started in CDWCloudera Docs
Getting started in CDW
In Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), you can deploy and administer cloud data warehousing. You can move workloads to the cloud securely and manage user access to warehouse data, or just parts of the data, through Apache Ranger fine-grained control. You learn how to get started in CDW.
As CDW administrator, you need privileges to access a CDP environment. As a CDW user, you need
      privileges to access warehouse data as described in the subtopic listed below. If you have
      permission to access an environment, you can create a Database Catalog, and then a Virtual
        Warehouse:
A Hive Virtual Warehouse for Hive users
An Impala Virtual Warehouse for Impala users
Unified Analytics-enabled Virtual Warehouse. Unified Analytics offers Hive/Impala-equivalent SQL
          syntax for many SQL queries, plus optimizations and enhancements.
You provide users with the URL of your Virtual Warehouse, and they can access the data you
      authorize using tools you download from Guides and More. Guides and More is on the Cloudera
      Data Warehouse Overview, shown below. To navigate to Overview, log into Cloudera Data
      Platform, and click Data Warehouse:

At the top of the overview, you can click links to this documentation or to CDP Patterns. Click Management Console to leave CDW to
      manage environments, users, and CDP services.


Guides and More links to CDW release notes, Cloudera Support
      web site, and the Community forum.  From Guides and More, you can install or download
      the following software or drivers:


CDP CLIInstall a tool to help you manage your Service Manager-managed cluster instances.
      The CLI can be used for automating cluster creation and termination.
JDBC JarDownload the Hive JDBC driver for clients to connect to a Virtual
     Warehouse.
Beeline CLIDownload the Beeline CLI tarball for clients to install and connect to a
      Virtual Warehouse.
Workload InsightsDownload this software for getting recommendations for creating
      materialized views.
JDBC/ODBC DriverDownload the Impala JDBC/ODBC driver for clients to connect to a Virtual
      Warehouse.
Unified Analyics JDBC DriverDownload a JDBC driver for clients to connect to a Unified
      Analytics Virtual Warehouse.



PrerequisitesTo get started in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), your       data must conform to supported compression codecs, and you must obtain CDP resource roles to       grant users access to a public cloud environment.      Users can then get started on CDW tasks, such as     activating the environment from CDW. Granting CDP users and groups access to Cloudera Data Warehouse serviceYou assign the DWAdmin and DWUser roles to users and groups who must use or manage     Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on public     cloud environments. Creating a Database CatalogHow you activate the environment determines key capabilities of CDW, such as what         data you can access. You learn how to set up the Database Catalog from the Data Warehouse         UI.Creating your first Virtual WarehouseAfter meeting prerequisites, you learn how to activate the environment from Cloudera     Data Warehouse (CDW). You then follow a procedure to add a new Database Catalog and create a     Virtual Warehouse.