Creating a Runtime Cluster Using a Cloudera Manager TemplateCloudera Docs
Creating a Runtime Cluster Using a Cloudera Manager Template
You can create a new cluster by exporting a cluster
      template from an existing cluster managed by Cloudera Manager. You can
    then modify the template and use it to create new clusters with the same
    configuration on a new set of hosts. 
Use cluster templates to:
Duplicate clusters for use in developer, test, and production
          environments.
Quickly create a cluster for a specific workload.
Reproduce a production cluster for testing and debugging.
Follow these general steps and refer to the following tasks to create
      a template and a new cluster:
You can only import
        a cluster template to create a new cluster that is running the same
        version of Cloudera Runtime as the cluster from which the template was
        exported.

Export the cluster configuration from the source cluster. The exported configuration is
          a JSON file that details all of the configurations of the cluster. The JSON file includes
          an instantiator section that contains some values you must provide before
          creating the new cluster.Set up the hosts for the new cluster by installing Cloudera Manager agents and the
          JDK on all hosts. For secure clusters, also configure a Kerberos key distribution center
          (KDC) in Cloudera Manager.Create any local repositories required for the cluster.See Step
            1: Configure a Repository for Cloudera Manager.Complete the instantiator section of the cluster configuration
          JSON document to create a template. Import the cluster template to the new cluster.


Related informationConfiguring a Local Package RepositoryExporting the Cluster ConfigurationTo create a cluster template, you begin by exporting the configuration from the     source cluster. The cluster must be running and managed by Cloudera Manager. Preparing a New ClusterThe new cluster into which you import the cluster template must meet the following     requirements:Creating the TemplateTo create a template, modify the instantiator section of the JSON     file you downloaded. Lines that contain the string <changeme> require a     value that you must supply. Importing the Template to a New ClusterComplete the steps below to import the cluster template.Sample Python CodeYou can perform the steps to export and import a cluster template programmatically using     a client written in Python or other languages. (You can also use the curl     commands provided above.)Parent topic: Using the Cloudera Manager API