Restoring the Cloudera Manager configurationCloudera Docs
Restoring the Cloudera Manager configuration
Steps to import the Cloudera Manager configuration.

Minimum Required Role:
Cluster
            Administrator (also provided by Full
          Administrator) This feature is not available when using Cloudera
            Manager to manage Data Hub clusters.
By default, Cloudera Manager redacts sensitive
        information from the exported configuration JSON file. If you need the
        ability to restore the Cloudera Manager configuration, you must do one
        of the following:
Disable redaction. The JSON file will contain all the
            configurations, including sensitive information and can be used to
            restore the Cloudera Manager configuration.
Replace the redacted information. The JSON will contain the
            word "REDACTED" where sensitive information was redacted. Replace
            these values with the correct values before restoring the Cloudera
            Manager configuration.


(Optional) If you are restoring the Cloudera Manager
          configuration from a redacted backup JSON file, you must replace all
          entries with the word "REDACTED" with the appropriate value.
        Restore the Cloudera Manager Configuration
Using a previously saved JSON document that contains the Cloudera
            Manager configuration data, you can restore that configuration to a
            running cluster. 

Using the Cloudera Manager Administration Console, stop
              all running services in your cluster:

On the
                      Home > Status
                  tab, click  to
                  the right of the cluster name and select Stop.
Click Stop in the confirmation screen. The Command
                    Details window shows the progress of stopping
                    services.When All services successfully stopped
                    appears, the task is complete and you can close the
                      Command Details window.

warningIf you do not stop the cluster before making
                this API call, the API call will stop all cluster
                services before running the job. Any running jobs and data are
                lost.

Log in to a host that has network access to the Cloudera
              Manager server host using ssh.
Copy the exported JSON file to this
            host.
Run the following command: 
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" --upload-file path_to_file/cm-deployment.json -u admin:admin http://cm_server_host:7180/api/v49/cm/deployment?deleteCurrentDeployment=true
Where: 
admin_uname is a
                    username with either the Full Administrator or Cluster
                    Administrator role.
admin_pass is the
                    password for the admin_uname
                    username.
cm_server_host is the
                    hostname of the Cloudera Manager server. 
path_to_file is the
                    path to the file containing the JSON configuration
                    file.




Parent topic: Using the Cloudera Manager API to backup and restore clusters