Cluster-Wide ConfigurationCloudera Docs
Cluster-Wide Configuration

Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
To make configuration changes that apply to an entire cluster, do one of
      the following to open the configuration page: 
All Clusters
From the Cloudera Manager Home page, click
                  Configuration and then select
              one of the following classes of properties: 
Advanced Configuration Snippets
Database Settings
Disk Space Thresholds
Local Data Directories and Files
Log Directories
Navigator Settings
Non-default Values - properties whose value differs from the default value 
Non-uniform Values - properties whose values are not uniform across the cluster
                  or clusters
Ports
Service Dependencies

You can also select Configuration Issues
          to view a list of configuration issues for all clusters.
Specific Cluster
From the Home page, click a cluster name, or click
                  Clusters > Cluster
                    name from the left menu.
Select
                Configuration
              and then select one of the classes of properties listed
              above.


You can also apply the following filters to limit the displayed
        properties:
Enter a search term in the Search box to
          search for properties by name or description.
Expand the Status filter to select options
          that limit the displayed properties to those with errors or warnings,
          properties that have been edited, properties with non-default values,
          or properties with overrides. Select All to
          remove any filtering by Status. 
Expand  the Scope filter to display a list of
          service types. Expand a service type heading to filter on
            Service-Wide configurations for a specific
          service instance or select one of the default role groups listed under
          each service type. Select All to remove any
          filtering by Scope.
Expand the  Category filter to filter using a
          sub-grouping of properties. Select All to
          remove any filtering by Category.


