Client Configuration FilesCloudera Docs
Client Configuration Files

Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
To allow clients to use the HBase, HDFS, Hive, MapReduce, and YARN
      services, Cloudera Manager creates zip archives of the configuration files
      containing the service properties. The zip archive is referred to as a
        client configuration file. Each archive contains the set of
      configuration files needed to access the service: for example, the
      MapReduce client configuration file contains copies of
        core-site.xml, hadoop-env.sh,
        hdfs-site.xml, log4j.properties, and
        mapred-site.xml.
Client
      configuration files are generated automatically by Cloudera Manager based on the services and
      roles you have installed and Cloudera Manager deploys these configurations automatically when
      you install your cluster, add a service on a host, or add a gateway role on a host.
      Specifically, for each host that has a service role instance installed, and for each host that
      is configured as a gateway role for that service, the deploy function downloads the
      configuration zip file, unzips it into the appropriate configuration directory, and uses the
      Linux alternatives mechanism to set a given, configurable priority level. If you are
      installing on a system that happens to have pre-existing alternatives, then it is possible
      another alternative may have higher priority and will continue to be used. The alternatives
      priority of the Cloudera Manager client configuration is configurable under the Gateway scope of the Configuration tab for the appropriate service.
warningCloudera Manager writes the configuration files to the
        /etc/hadoop/conf directory on all managed hosts. When
      you re-deploy the client configuration, Cloudera Manager deletes this
      directory before writhing the new configuration files. Therefore, you
      should not save any additional configuration files in this directory. If
      you want to customize configurations stored in this directory, make the
      configuration changes using Cloudera Manager configuration properties, or
      use Advanced Configuration Snippets and then deploy the client
      configuration, which will contain the customizations.
You can also manually distribute client configuration files to the clients of a
      service.
importantIf you deploy the client configuration to a host that
      is not managed by Cloudera Manager, you will need to make the following change:
Unzip the client configuration bundle.
Edit the hadoop-env.sh file and change the line
          that begins with export HADOOP_MAPRED_HOME=
          toexport HADOOP_MAPRED_HOME=<path to Jar files>

The main
      circumstance that may require a redeployment of the client configuration files is when you
      have modified a configuration. In this case you will typically see a message instructing you
      to redeploy your client configurations. The affected service(s) will also display a  icon. Click the indicator to display the
          Stale Configurations page.


Related informationGateway RolesAlternatives CommandStale ConfigurationsHow Client Configurations are DeployedDownloading Client Configuration FilesManually Redeploying Client Configuration Files