Changing the Configuration of a Service or Role InstanceCloudera Docs
Changing the Configuration of a Service or Role Instance


Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
In the left menu, click Clusters > 
service
        name.Click the Configuration
        tab.Locate the property you want to edit. You can type all or
          part of the property name in the search box, or use the
            Filters panel on the left side of the screen.
          Click the Filters toggle to show or hide the
            Filters panel. Click the
            Clear link to clear any selected
          filters.
ScopeThe Scope section in the
                Filters panel organizes the configuration
              properties by role types; first those that are
              Service-Wide, followed by various role types within the
              service. When you select one of these roles, a set of properties
              whose values are managed by the default role group for the role
              display. Any additional role groups that apply to the property
              also appear in this panel and you can modify values for each role
              group just as you can the default role group.
CategoryThe Category section in the
                Filters panel allows you to limit the
              displayed properties by category.
StatusThe Status section in the
                Filters panel limits the displayed
              properties by their status. Possible statuses include:
Error
Warning
Edited
Non-default
Has Overrides


Edit the property value.

To facilitate entering some types of values, you can specify not
              only the value, but also the units that apply to the value. for
              example, to enter a setting that specifies bytes per second, you
              can choose to enter the value in bytes (B), KiBs, MiBs, or
              GiBs—selected from a drop-down menu that appears when you edit the
              value.
If the property allows a list of values, click the  icon to the right of the edit field to add
              an additional field. An example of this is the HDFS DataNode Data
              Directory property, which can have a comma-delimited list of
              directories as its value. To remove an item from such a list,
              click the  icon to the right of the field you want to
              remove.

Many configuration properties have different values that are
            configured by multiple role groups. 
To edit configuration values for multiple role groups:

Go to the property, For example, the configuration panel
              for the Heap Dump Directory property
              displays the DataNode Default Group (a role group), and a link
              that says ... and 6 others.






Click the ... and 6 others link
              to display all of the role groups:






Click the Show fewer link to
              collapse the list of role groups. 
If you edit the single value for this property, Cloudera
                Manager applies the value to all role groups. To edit the values
                for one or more of these role groups individually, click
                  Edit Individual Values. Individual
                fields display where you can edit the values for each role
                group. For example:






The Reasons for Change field is
          automatically populated with information about configuration changes
          you have made. You can edit or add any additional information. This
          information is saved with the configuration history, which you can
          view by clicking the History and Rollback link
          in the top portion of the screen.Click Save Changes (or CNTRL + S) to commit the
          changes. This changes the setting for the role group, and
          applies to all role instances associated with that role group.
          Depending on the change you made, you may need to restart the service
          or roles associated with the configuration you just changed. Or, you
          may need to redeploy your client configuration for the service. You
          should see a message to that effect at the top of the Configuration
          page, and services will display an outdated configuration  (Restart Needed),  (Refresh Needed), or outdated client
          configuration  indicator. Click the indicator to display the
              Stale Configurations page.

To view or revert your configuration
      changes, click the History and Rollback link in the
      top portion of the screen.
Related informationRole GroupsStale ConfigurationsSearching for PropertiesValidation of Configuration PropertiesOverriding Configuration PropertiesViewing and Editing Overridden Configuration PropertiesResetting Configuration Properties to the Default ValueViewing and Editing Host OverridesYou can override the properties of individual hosts in your cluster.Parent topic: Modifying Configuration Properties Using Cloudera Manager