Stale ConfigurationsCloudera Docs
Stale Configurations

Minimum Required Role:
Configurator (also provided by
          Cluster Administrator,
Limited Cluster Administrator , and
          Full Administrator)
The Stale Configurations page provides differential views of changes made
      in a cluster. For any configuration change, the page contains entries of
      all affected attributes. For example, the following File entry shows the
      change to the file hdfs-site.xml when you update the
      property controlling how much disk space is reserved for non-HDFS use on
      each DataNode:


To display the entities affected by a change, click the Show
      button at the right of the entry. The following dialog box shows that
      three DataNodes were affected by the disk space change:



Viewing Stale Configurations
To view stale configurations, click the  ,  , or  indicator next to a service on the
          Cloudera Manager Admin Console Home page or on a
        service status page. 

Attribute Categories
The categories of attributes include: 

Environment - represents environment variables set for the
          role. For example, the following entry shows the change to the
          environment that occurs when you update the heap memory configuration
          of the SecondaryNameNode.


Files - represents configuration files used by the role.
Process User & Group - represents the user and group for
          the role. Every role type has a configuration to specify the
          user/group for the process. If you change a value for a user or group
          on any service's configuration page it will appear in the Stale
          Configurations page.
System Resources - represents system resources allocated for
          the role, including ports, directories, and cgroup limits. For
          example, a change to the port of role instance will appear in the
          System Resources category.
Client Configs Metadata - represents client
          configurations.


Filtering Stale Configurations
You filter the entries on the Stale Configurations page by selecting from one of
        the drop-down lists:
Attribute - you can filter by an attribute category such as All Files or
            by a specific file such as topology.map or
            yarn-site.xml.
Service
Role

After you make a selection, both the page and the drop-down show only entries
        that match that selection.
To reset the view, click Remove Filter or select All
XXX, where XXX is Files, Services,
        or Roles, from the drop-down. For example, to see all the files, select
        All Files.

Stale Configuration Actions
The Stale Configurations page displays action buttons. The action
        depends on what is required to bring the entire cluster's configuration
        up to date. If you go to the page by clicking a  (Refresh Needed) indicator, the action button
        will say Restart Stale Services if one of the roles listed
        on the page need to be restarted.

Refresh Stale Services - Refreshes stale services.
Restart Stale Services - Restarts stale services.
Restart Cloudera Management Service -
          Runs the restart Cloudera Management
            Service action.
Deploy Client Configuration - Runs the cluster deploy client
          configurations action.



Related informationCloudera Manager Admin ConsoleClient Configuration Files