Adding clusters to a CDP Private Cloud Data Services deploymentCloudera Docs
Adding clusters to a CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment
You must add a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster to your CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment before you can replicate data from the base
    cluster.
Only a CDP account administrator or a
      user with the PowerUser role can add a CDP Private Cloud Base cluster to a
        CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment.

Sign in to the CDP console. 

Click Management Console.

On the Management Console home page, select
                    Clusters.

On the Register Cluster page, click Get
                        Started.

On the Cluster Details page, specify the details of the
                    cluster that you want to add.



Field
Description



Cloudera Manager URL
The URL to access the Cloudera Manager server associated
                                        with the base cluster you want to add.Specify the URL in
                                            the
                                                  http(s)://cloudera-manager-host:cloudera-manager-port
                                            format.noteYou cannot add the
                                            URL of a Cloudera Manager server that manages multiple
                                            CDP Private Cloud Base clusters.


Username
The username of the Cloudera Manager server.


Password
The password associated with the specified username of
                                        the Cloudera Manager server.


Location
The location of the base cluster that you want to
                                        add.


DataCenter
The data center to which the base cluster
                                        belongs.


Tags
Tags to identify the Cloudera Manager server associated
                                        with the base cluster you want to add.


Description
Description of the Cloudera Manager server.




Select the option to enable Management Console store the base cluster details
                    that you have specified, and click Add.
Management Console tests the connection with the base cluster based on the
                    specified details, and on successful authentication, updates the Clusters
                    page.
Optional: 
Click Add Cluster on the Cluster
                        Details page, and repeat steps 5 and 6 to add more
                    clusters.

noteYou can add a new base cluster only if its
                            Name-Data Center
                        combination is unique compared to those of the already added
                        clusters.



Parent topic: Registering clusters in a CDP Private Cloud Data Services deployment