Configuring HTTP Headers for Cloudera Machine LearningCloudera Docs
Configuring HTTP Headers for Cloudera Machine Learning
This topic explains how to customize the HTTP headers that are
    accepted by Cloudera Machine Learning. 
Required Role: Site AdministratorThese properties are available
      under the site administrator panel at Admin > Security.importantAny changes to the following properties require a full
        restart of Cloudera Machine Learning. To do so, run cdsw
          restart on the master host. 
Enable Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
Most modern browsers implement the Same-Origin Policy, which restricts how a
        document or a script loaded from one origin can interact with a resource
        from another origin. When the Enable cross-origin resource
          sharing property is enabled on Cloudera Machine Learning,
        web servers will include the Access-Control-Allow-Origin:
          * HTTP header in their HTTP responses. This gives web
        applications on different domains permission to access the Cloudera Machine Learning API through browsers.
This property is 
disabled by default
.
If this property is disabled, web applications from different domains
        will not be able to programmatically communicate with the Cloudera Machine Learning API through browsers. 

Enable HTTP Security Headers
When Enable HTTP security headers is enabled, the following HTTP
        headers will be included in HTTP responses from servers: 
X-XSS-Protection
X-DNS-Prefetch-Control
X-Frame-Options
X-Download-Options
X-Content-Type-Options


This property is 
enabled by default
.
Disabling this property could leave your Cloudera Machine Learning deployment vulnerable to clickjacking, cross-site scripting
        (XSS), or any other injection attacks. 

Enable HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)
noteWithout TLS/SSL enabled, configuring this property will have no
        effect on your browser.
When both TLS/SSL and
        this property (Enable HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)) are
        enabled, Cloudera Machine Learning will inform your browser that
        it should never load the site using HTTP. Additionally, all attempts to
        access Cloudera Machine Learning using HTTP will automatically be
        converted to HTTPS.
This property is 
disabled by default
.
If you ever need to downgrade to back to HTTP, use the following
        sequence of steps: First, deactivate this checkbox to disable HSTS and
        restart Cloudera Machine Learning. Then, load the Cloudera Machine Learning web application in each browser to clear the
        respective browser's HSTS setting. Finally, disable TLS/SSL across the
        cluster. Following this sequence should help avoid a situation where
        users get locked out of their accounts due to browser caching. 

Enable HTTP Security HeadersEnable HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)Enable Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)