Debugging Issues with ExperimentsCloudera Docs
Debugging Issues with Experiments

This topic lists some common issues to watch out for during an
      experiment's build and execution process:
Experiment spends too long in Scheduling/Built stage
If your experiments are spending too long in any particular stage,
        check the resource consumption statistics for the cluster. When the
        cluster starts to run out of resources, often experiments (and other
        entities like jobs, models) will spend too long in the queue before they
        can be executed.
Resource consumption by experiments (and jobs, sessions) can be tracked
        by site administrators on the
            Admin > 
            Activity page. 

Experiment fails in the Build stage
During the build stage Cloudera Machine Learning creates a new
        Docker image for the experiment. You can track progress for this stage
        on each experiment's Build page. The build logs
        on this page should help point you in the right direction.
Common issues that might cause failures at this stage include:
Lack of execute permissions on the build script itself.
Inability to reach the Python package index or R mirror when
            installing packages.
Typo in the name of the build script
              (cdsw-build.sh). Note that the build process will
            only run a script called cdsw-build.sh; not any
            other bash scripts from your project.
Using pip3 to install packages in
              cdsw-build.sh, but selecting a Python 2 kernel
            when you actually launch the experiment. Or vice versa. 


Experiment fails in the Execute stage
Each experiment includes a Session page where
        you can track the output of the experiment as it executes. This is
        similar to the output you would see if you test the experiment in the
        workbench console. Any runtime errors will display on the
          Session page just as they would in an
        interactive session. 


Related informationEngines for Experiments and Models