Monitoring end to end latency for Kafka topicCloudera Docs
Monitoring end to end latency for Kafka topic
To monitor end-to-end latency of Kafka topics, you can monitor the count of consumed
        messages across all Kafka consumer groups and the time taken by all Kafka consumer groups to
        consume messages that are produced in a Kafka topic, in a graphical way. You can also
        monitor the same for each Kafka consumer group, each client in a Kafka consumer group, and
        each partition in a Kafka topic.

Perform the following steps to monitor end-to-end latency in the Streams Messaging
                Manager (SMM) UI:


Go to Topics in the SMM UI.

Select the topic you want to verify the details about.

Click the Profile icon beside the
                    topic you select.

This takes you to the Metrics page where you can find
                        the Messages Consumed and End-to-end
                            Latency graphs along with other topic details. On the
                            Metrics page, these two graphs provide you an
                        aggregated result of latency and count of consumed messages across all
                        consumer groups.


To verify the details by individual consumer groups, clients, and partitions,
                    go to the Latency tab.

The Latency page appears as shown in the following image:




The Latency view gives you a powerful snapshot of the end-to-end latency
                        scenario: number of consumer groups for a topic, number of clients inside a
                        particular consumer group, and number of partitions in a topic along with
                        the Messages Consumed and End-to-end
                            Latency graphs.


Select any consumer group from the Consumer Groups
                    drop-down, as shown in the following image:






In the image, group10 consumer group is selected. The
                            Latency tab displays that there are 3 clients in the
                        group10 consumer group, and 10 partitions are available in the topic.


Select any client from the Clients drop-down, as shown
                    in the following image:






In the image, host-1 client is selected. At this instance, the Messages
                        Consumed and End-to-end Latency graphs display data for only the host-1
                        client. Here you can monitor the number of messages produced, number of
                        messages consumed, latency range, and average latency for host-1 only. Hover
                        your mouse over the graphs and get data at any point of time in the selected
                        time range. You can see in the Messages Consumed graph that host-1 consumed
                        all the messages that are produced and actively consuming data at the latest
                        time. You can see in the End-to-end Latency graph that the latency range and
                        average latency are under 250 milliseconds.


To get details about the partitions from where host-1 is consuming data, click
                        Partitions.
The list of partitions in the topic appears, as shown in the following
                        image:



In the image, you can see that host-1 is consuming data from 3 partitions:
                        P1, P2, and P3. Other partitions are inactive for host-1.


Select any active partition from the list.

The Latency tab displays the transaction details
                        between host-1 and the selected partition (for example, P1), as shown in the
                        following image:




Now you have got details for host-1 client. Likewise, you can fetch details
                        for other clients.


Follow steps 6 through 8 to fetch data for all other clients.

Follow steps 5 through 8 to fetch data for all other consumer groups.


To clear all the selections at once, click the
                                Clear button at the top-right corner of the
                            page.


To clear selection for Consumer Groups, Clients, or Partitions, click the
                            delete icon located on each drop-down.


To select a different time range, use the Time
                                Range and Quick Ranges options at
                            the top-right corner of the page, as shown in the following image:






