Renew certificates manually for an Inbound Connection EndpointCloudera Docs
Renew certificates manually for an Inbound Connection Endpoint
If you need to replace an X.509 certificate for an inbound connection endpoint before
        it expires, you can do so manually.
You need DFFlowAdmin privilege to
            perform this action.

On the Dashboard select the DataFlow deployment for
                    which you want to renew the certifiacate. 
The Deployment Details pane opens.

On the Deployment Details pane click Manage
                        DataFlow.

On the  Deployment Manager page from
                        Deployment Settings pane select NiFi
                        Configuration.

Click Renew Certificates.


To renew the server certificate, select NiFi Inbound SSL
                                Context Service.noteEach server
                                certificate is limited to five renewals in a 7 day sliding
                                window.
To renew the client certificate, select Client SSL
                                Context.
If you leave Revoke previously issued client
                                certificates unchecked, existing client certificates
                            remain valid and existing clients can continue to connect to your
                            deployment using it. By selecting the Revoke previously
                                issued client certificates option, you invalidate all
                            existing certificates and you will need to add the new certificate to
                            existing clients so that they can keep connecting to your CDF
                            deployment.



Click Renew & Restart.
The UI switches to the KPIs and Alerts pane where
                    you can monitor as your deployment restarts and the new certificate or
                    certificates become available.



If you have renewed the NiFi Inbound SSL Context
                            Service:
You have take no further action.
If you have renewed the Client SSL Context:
After your CDP deployment has restarted, you  switch to the NiFi
                            Configuration pane to download the Client
                            Certificate and the Client Private
                            Key. You can then add these to your client.



Related informationConnecting applications to an endpointParent topic: Renewing certificates for Outbound Connection Endpoints