Using a non-transparent proxyCloudera Docs
Using a non-transparent proxy
Refer to this section if your environment requires all internet traffic to go through
    an internet proxy. You can use a proxy server to control the connections that are allowed from
    your VPC or VNet and block unauthorized connections initiated from your environment.
When creating a CDP environment, you can set up an HTTP proxy such as Squid or a comparable
      product. For a majority of use cases, this is enough to direct the traffic through a proxy. 
Proxy servers can be used for: 


FreeIPA backups: Backups created on an hourly basis are uploaded to cloud storage
          S3/ADLS Gen2.
Parcel downloads: Although CDP currently only supports pre-warmed images, it is a
          requirement to download parcels from archive.cloudera.com when an upgrade is
          performed.
Cluster Connectivity Manager (CCM): Communication via CCMv1 and CCMv2.
TLS and Deep Packet Inspection (DPI): TLS and DPI Inspection can be performed through
          the use of a proxy. To see how to configure this, refer to the Setting up a web proxy
            for TLS inspection section below. 


The following diagram illustrates the communication between the customer’s CDP environment
      and the CDP Control Plane in a cloud provider network (VPC/VNet) via a web proxy: 




noteThe above diagram illustrates a simple architecture where the web proxy is located
        within the customer VPC/VNet. However, the web proxy could be located anywhere in the
        network between the CCM agent and the CCM server: in the customer VPC outside of CDP (as
        above), in another customer VPC, or in a cloud-based web proxy service. 

Supported CDP services
The following CDP services allow the use of a web proxy: 



CDP service
AWS
Azure
GCP



Data Lake
GA
GA
GA


FreeIPA
GA
GA
GA


Data Engineering
GA




Data Hub
GA
GA
GA


Data Warehouse
GA




DataFlow
GA




Machine Learning
GA




Operational Database






Note that in order to use a non-transparent proxy with CDP data services (such as Data
        Engineering, Data Warehouse, DataFlow, and Machine Learning), you must first configure it at
        the environment level and then once again when enabling/activating the CDP data service. 



Setting up a non-transparent proxy in CDP
To set up a proxy server you can register an http proxy server as a shared resource and
    then add that shared resource when you set up your environment. 
noteOnce you register a proxy in CDP, there is no option to edit the proxy registration. You
      need to delete the proxy registration in CDP and register the proxy again.
Required role:
EnvironmentCreator can register a proxy in CDP and manage user access to the proxy.
        Owner or SharedResourceUser can view the proxy details. Owner can
      delete the proxy registration from CDP.
Steps
CDP UICDP CLI


Log in to the CDP web interface.

Navigate to the Management Console.

Select Shared Resources > Proxies from the left
              navigation pane.


Click Create Proxy Configuration.





Enter the information for your proxy server:

Parameter
Description



Name (Required)
Provide a name for the proxy. The name will be used for this specific
                        proxy in CDP. 


Description 
You can optionally specify a longer description for this proxy. 


Protocol (Required)
Select the protocol used by the proxy: HTTP or HTTPS. 


Server Host (Required)
Provide proxy server's host.


Server Port (Required)
Provide the proxy server's port. 


No Proxy Hosts

The no-proxy field allows you to designate specific IP addresses,
                          domains, or subdomains that bypass the proxy. This setting can be useful
                          for locally resolvable and internal endpoints, for example the CCMv2 agent
                          or the metering agent. 
Enter the values for this field in a comma-separated list. For example:
                            172.100.0.110,domainname.com,my.host.com
Note the following guidelines:
The period character (".") is allowed as a prefix for domain names
                              only
CIDR notation is not allowed

noteIf you are running a CDP environment on Azure using Runtime 7.2.14 or
                          newer and you don't want to make an exception for management.azure.com
                          (which is mentioned as required in Azure outbound network access
                            destinations), you can add the following to the No Proxy Hosts
                          list:localhost,127.0.0.1,169.254.169.254,168.63.129.16



User name 
If needed, provide a user name to access the proxy.


Password
If needed, provide a password to access the proxy.



Click REGISTER.

Click Environments in the left navigation pane, then click
                Register Environment.


Add your environment information, navigating through the Register
                Environment and Data Lake Scaling steps.


When you reach the Region, Networking and Security steps,
              choose the Proxy you registered. 





Finish setting up your Environment.



As an alternative to using the UI, you can also register the proxy using the CLI.

Use the following commands:
cdp environments create-proxy-config \
  --proxy-config-name companyProxy \
  --host 10.102.0.19 \
  --port 3128 \
  --user squid \
  --password squid \
  --protocol http


Provide the proxyConfigName in the environment JSON:
...
"subnetIds": [
  "subnet-1",
  "subnet-2",
  "subnet-3"
  ],
  "proxyConfigName": "companyProxy" must be on the root level
}


Or in the --proxy-config-name argument of the environment creation
                command, enter the following:
AWS:
cdp environments create-aws-environment \
  --cli-input-json '{...}' \
  --proxy-config-name companyProxy
Azure:cdp environments create-azure-environment \
  --cli-input-json '{...}' \
  --proxy-config-name companyProxy





Setting up a web proxy for TLS inspection
After setting up the proxy server in CDP, you can further configure it to perform TLS
  interception and Deep Packet Inspection (DPI). 
Without a web proxy, a single TLS session is initiated from the CCM agent and
   terminated at the CCM server within the Control Plane. With the introduction of the web proxy,
   there are two TLS sessions: (1) a TLS session initiated from the CCM agent terminating at the
   proxy and (2) a TLS session initiated from the proxy terminating at the CCM server within the
   Control Plane. The web proxy decrypts the packets of the TLS session, performs any operations on
   the clear text (such as DPI), and re-encrypts the packets onto the second TLS session. Thus the
   proxy behaves as a man-in-the-middle (MITM) that is able to view the communications between the
   CCM agent and the CCM server using TLS inspection.
The following diagram illustrates the communication between the customer’s CDP
   environment and the CDP Control Plane in a cloud provider network (VPC/VNet) via a web proxy: 





noteThe above diagram illustrates a simple architecture where the web proxy is located within
   the customer VPC/VNet. However, the web proxy could be located anywhere in the network between
   the CCM agent and the CCM server: in the customer VPC outside of CDP (as above), in another
   customer VPC, or as a cloud-based web proxy service. 
The CDP architecture with and without proxy-based TLS inspection is illustrated in the
   following two diagrams.
The following diagram illustrates CCM communication without a web proxy as MITM:



The following diagram illustrates CCM communication with a web proxy as MITM:



To configure TLS inspection, you need to set up your proxy to trust the certificate of CCM,
   and, in turn, make sure that CCM trusts the proxy’s CA certificate. 
Steps 


Register a new CDP environment. 


After the FreeIPA nodes are running, SSH into the FreeIPA nodes and perform the
     following set of steps:


Get the CA certificate from /etc/jumpgate/config.toml and grab
       the pinned CA certificate from the agent.relayServerCertificate
       parameter.


Configure your proxy server to trust this certificate for the CCM traffic.


Copy your proxy server’s CA certificate and replace the contents of
        agent.relayServerCertificate in
       /etc/jumpgate/config.toml.


Configure your proxy to start MITM-ing the underlying TLS connection.





