Authenticating users in CDW Private CloudCloudera Docs
Authenticating users in CDW Private Cloud
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) supports LDAP and Kerberos for authenticating users to
  access databases and tables from Business Intelligence (BI) clients and tools such as Hue,
  Beeline, Impyla, Impala-shell, and other JDBC clients.
Authentication using LDAP
If you choose to use LDAP to authenticate users to connect to a Virtual Warehouse from a
    client shell such as Beeline, Impyla, Impala-shell, and so on, then you must create Bind users.
    However, the Bind users must either specify the username and password inline with the command or
    after submitting the command from the client.
CDW does not support LDAP and Kerberos simultaneously for connecting to Hive Virtual
    Warehouse. You have the option to select either LDAP or Kerberos for authenticating users to
    Hive Virtual Warehouses while creating a new Virtual Warehouse. The default authentication mode
    is LDAP. There is no such restriction for Impala. However, if you enable the Unified Analytics
    mode on Impala Virtual Warehouses, then certain Hive components are also included in the Impala
    Virtual Warehouse, therefore, the authentication mode restriction applies to these Hive
    components as well. You must specify the authentication mode for Unified Analytics components
    when creating an Impala Virtual Warehouse. The default authentication mode for the Hive
    components in the Unified Analytics mode is LDAP. The authentication mode that you set here
    applies only to the Unified Analytics' components (mainly Hive). The Impala components continue
    to support both authentication modes. If you connect to the Impala Virtual Warehouse remotely,
    then both LDAP and Kerberos authentication modes can be used. But if you connect to the Impala
    Virtual Warehouse in the Unified Analytics mode, then only the selected authentication mode is
    used.

Authentication using Kerberos
Kerberos uses passwords stored in the Kerberos keytab files. This removes the need to specify
    username and password as parameters inline with the command or after submitting the command from
    a JDBC client to connect to a Virtual Warehouse in CDW, while adding a layer of security.
important

The Private Cloud Base cluster must be Kerberized to use Kerberos as the
      authentication mode for CDW.
CDW requires all user Kerberos principals to be present in the configured LDAP
      server as well.


Impala can use LDAP or Kerberos without any pre-configuration. To use Kerberos for Hive, you
    must select KERBEROS from the Hive Authentication
     Mode drop-down menu while creating a Hive Virtual Warehouse. 


