




Governance: Documentation








Cloudera Docs









Governance


Apache Atlas provides data governance capabilities for Hadoop. Apache
Atlas serves as a common metadata store that is designed to exchange
metadata both within and outside of the Hadoop stack. Close integration
of Atlas with Apache Ranger enables you to define, administer, and
manage security and compliance policies consistently across all
components of the Hadoop stack. Atlas provides metadata and lineage to
Data Steward Studio to support curating data across enterprise data.



Searching with Metadata
Use the metadata Atlas collects and metadata you add to effectively find entities.

Exploring using Lineage
Lineage offers insight into where data came from and how to determine the impact of changes to data assets.

Working with Classifications and Labels
How to use Apache Atlas to search for, annotate, classify, and manage data.

Leveraging Business Metadata
Business Metadata allows you to extend the model that represent a given asset type in Atlas. Sets of business metadata can be authorized independently through Ranger so you can manage who has the ability to update which business metadata attributes.

Managing Business Terms with Atlas Glossaries
Collecting your organization's terms in Atlas helps you build a search index to easily find the data assets you are looking for.

Setting up High Availability in Atlas
Configure Atlas High Availability (HA) for your clusters.

Auditing Atlas Entities
Explains how to monitor Atlas audit logs.
 

Configuring and Monitoring Atlas in Cloudera Manager
Configure Atlas' extractors, monitor status, and access logs using Cloudera Manager.

Securing Atlas
Configure Atlas' authentication and authorization through Cloudera Manager and using access policies in Apache Ranger. With CDP Cloud, authentication is configured for you using Free IPA; you'll still want to review and customize Atlas policies in Ranger to meet your organization's requirements.

Migrating Data from Cloudera Navigator to Atlas
When upgrading a cluster from CDH to CDP, you can choose to move your Navigator Data Management metadata into Atlas.

Extracting S3 Metadata using Atlas
Explains about the Atlas metadata extractor for S3, which you can run on an Atlas host to provide comprehensive metadata for data assets stored in S3.

Extracting ADLS Metadata using Atlas
Explains about the Atlas metadata extractor for ADLS, which you can run on an Atlas host to provide comprehensive metadata for data assets stored in ADLS.

Iceberg for Atlas
Atlas integration with Iceberg helps you identify the Iceberg tables  to scan data and provide lineage support.
 
 
 

















