




Data Access: Documentation








Cloudera Docs









Data Access


Cloudera Data Platform Runtime includes Apache Hive 3 and Apache Impala
for storing and accessing data in the Hive metastore database. Hive 3
addresses enterprise data warehouse demands for transactional data in
the ORC file format. Impala performs high-performance, low-latency SQL
queries on data in Parquet and other formats. Hue is a web-based
interactive editor for querying the Hive metastore that also creates
Oozie workflows. DAS is a web application for performing operations on
Hive tables and also provides recommendations for optimizing the
performance of your queries.



Data Analytics Studio
Using Data Analytics Studio
Describes how to work with queries, manage databases and tables, and generate reports.
 
Apache Hive
Working with Hive Metastore
Describes how Hive metastore (HMS) detects client types and and stores compatible tables, authorizes access to tables from Spark, and stores metadata of multiple services, such as Hive and Impala.

Starting Apache Hive
Describes how to launch Hive, execute commands, and issue queries from Beeline.

Using Hive
Covers how to use Hive 3 to query flat and transactional data using SQL statements.

Managing Apache Hive
Includes information about mature ACID v2 operations on transactions, compaction of files that accumulate during, ingestion, and query vectorization.

Securing Apache Hive
Discusses how to choose an authorization model based on your use case.

Integrating Apache Hive with Spark and Kafka
Covers accessing Hive tables from Spark through the Hive Warehouse Connector and from Apache Kafka.  

Integrating Apache Hive with Apache Spark and BI
Covers using JdbcStorageHandler to access an external  data source, and connecting to Business Intelligence tools.

Apache Hive Performance Tuning
Explains low-latency analytical processing, caching, and tuning options.

Migrating Data Using Sqoop
Explains how to move data from relational databases directly to Hive or to the file system or object store and how to move data back to Hive.
  

Apache Impala
Starting and Stopping Apache Impala
Presents the task topics for configuring client access to Impala, and starting and stopping Impala.

Securing Apache Impala
Describes a set of security features Impala provides to protect your critical and sensitive data.

Configuring Apache Impala
Describes how to customize your environment after installing Impala.

Tuning Apache Impala
Describes how to tune Impala queries and other SQL operations.

Managing Apache Impala
Presents the task topics for managing resources and metadata in Impala.

Monitoring Apache Impala
Describes how to monitor Impala service to run smoothly and avoid conflicts with other components running on the same cluster.
 
Hue
Using Hue
Describes how to use Hue to query Apache Impala data sets and how to use it to browse metadata in Apache Atlas.

Administering Hue
Describes how to configure Hue, customize its web UI, and to enable integration with Apache Atlas.

Securing Hue
Describes how to set Hue user and application permissions, configure SSL connections, LDAP authentication, and integration with Apache Ranger and Knox.

Tuning Hue
Describes how to add a load balancer and configure high availability for Hue and between Hue and other components, such as Hive, Impala, and HDFS.
 
Search
Search Tutorial
A tutorial on using Cloudera Search.

Securing Cloudera Search
Describes how to secure Solr network connections, configure authentication and authorization.

Tuning Cloudera Search
Describes how to optimize Cloudera Search performance for various use cases.

Managing Cloudera Search
Describes how to configure and manage Cloudera Search.

Cloudera Search ETL
Describes how to perform ETL using Cloudera Search and Morphlines.

Indexing Data Using Cloudera Search
Describes how to index data using Cloudera Search.
  
 
 

















