Adding tag-based policiesCloudera Docs
Adding tag-based policies
Tag-based policies enable you to control access to resources across multiple Hadoop
      components without creating separate services and policies in each component. You can also use
      Ranger TagSync to synchronize the Ranger tag store with an external metadata service such as
      Apache Atlas.
Select Access Manager> Tag Based Policies, then select a tag-based
               service.

Thee List of Policies page appears with the Access tab selected by default. Click
                  Add New Policy.





The Create Policy page appears: 



Enter information on the Create Policy page as follows:

Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description



Policy Type
Set to Access by default.


Policy Name
Enter a unique policy name. This name cannot be duplicated across
                              the system. This field is mandatory.


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When override is
                              selected, the access permissions in the policy override the access
                              permissions in existing policies. This feature can be used with Add
                              Validity Period to create temporary access policies that override
                              existing policies. 


TAG
Enter the applicable tag name. 


Description
(Optional) Describe the purpose of the policy.


Audit Logging
Specify whether this policy is audited. (De-select to disable
                              auditing). 


Policy Label
Specify a label for this policy. You can search reports and filter
                              policies based on these labels.


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Policy Conditions (applied at the policy level)

Click the + icon to add policy conditions. Currently
                                 "Accessed after expiry_date? (yes/no)" is the only available policy
                                 condition. 

"Accessed after expiry_date (yes/no)?": To
                                 set this condition, type yes in the text box, then click the
                                 check mark button to add the condition.

Enter boolean expression: Available for
                                 allow or deny conditions on tag-based policies. For examples and
                                 details, see Using Tag Attributes and Values in Ranger Tag-Based
                                    Policy Conditions.
Click Save to save the policy condition. 



Table 2. Allow, Exclude from Allow, Deny, and Exclude from Deny Conditions




Label






Description






Select Role
Specify the roles to which this policy applies. 


Select Group 

Specify the group to which this policy applies. To designate the
                                 group as an Administrator for the chosen resource, specify Admin
                                 permissions. (Administrators can create child policies based on
                                 existing policies).
The public group contains all users, so setting a condition
                                 for the public group applies to all users.



Select User
Specify a particular user to which this policy applies (outside of
                              an already-specified group) OR designate a particular user as Admin
                              for this policy. (Administrators can create child policies based on
                              existing policies).


Policy Conditions (applied at the item level)

Click Add Conditions to add policy conditions. Currently
                                 "Accessed after expiry_date? (yes/no)" is the only available policy
                                 condition. 

"Accessed after expiry_date (yes/no)?": To
                                 set this condition, type yes in the text box, then click the
                                 check mark button to add the condition.

Enter boolean expression: Available for
                                 allow or deny conditions on tag-based policies. For examples and
                                 details, see Using Tag Attributes and Values in Ranger Tag-Based
                                    Policy Conditions.



Component Permissions
Click Add Permissions to add or edit component conditions.
                              To add component permissions, enter the component name in the text
                              box, then use the check boxes to specify component permissions. Click
                              the check mark button to add the chosen component conditions to the
                              policy. 



You can use the Plus (+) symbols to add additional conditions. Conditions
               are evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The condition at the top of the list
               is applied first, then the second, then the third, and so on.

You can use Deny All Other Accesses to deny access to all other users,
               groups, and roles other than those specified in the allow conditions for the policy.
            

Click Add to add the new policy.

Related informationUsing tag attributes and values in Ranger tag-based policy conditionsUsing tag attributes and values in Ranger tag-based policy conditionsEnter boolean expression allows Ranger to use tag attributes       and values when configuring tag-based policy Allow or Deny conditions. It allows admins to       provide boolean expression(s) using tag attributes.Adding a tag-based PII policyExample of how to add a PII tag-based policy. In this example we create a tag-based       policy for objects tagged "PII" in Atlas. Access to objects tagged "PII" is allowed for       members of the "audit" group. All other users (the "public" group) are denied       access.Default EXPIRES ON tag policyAn EXPIRES_ON tag-based policy is created automatically when a tag service instance       created. This default policy denies access to objects tagged with EXPIRES_ON after the expiry       date specified in the Atlas tag attribute. You can use the following steps to review the       default EXPIRES_ON policy.Parent topic: Tag-based Services and Policies