Row-level filtering in Hive with Ranger policiesCloudera Docs
Row-level filtering in Hive with Ranger policies
Row-level filtering helps simplify Hive queries. By moving the access restriction
      logic down into the Hive layer, Hive applies the access restrictions every time data access is
      attempted. This helps simplify authoring of the Hive query, and provides seamless
      behind-the-scenes enforcement of row-level segmentation without having to add this logic to
      the predicate of the query.

Row-level filtering also improves the reliability and robustness of Hadoop. By providing
            row-level security to Hive tables and reducing the security surface area, Hive data
            access can be restricted to specific rows based on user characteristics (such as group
            membership) and the runtime context in which this request is issued.
Typical use cases where row-level filtering can be beneficial include:

A hospital can create a security policy that allows doctors to view data rows only
               for their own patients, and that allows insurance claims administrators to view only
               specific rows for their specific site.
A bank can create a policy to restrict access to rows of financial data based on the
               employee's business division, locale, or based on the employee's role (for example:
               only employees in the finance department are allowed to see customer invoices,
               payments, and accrual data; only European HR employees can see European employee
               data).
A multi-tenant application can create logical separation of each tenant's data so
               that each tenant can see only their own data rows.

You can use Apache Ranger row-level filters to set access policies for rows in Hive
            tables. Row-level filter policies are similar to other Ranger access policies. You can
            set filters for specific users, groups, and conditions.
The following conditions apply when using row-level filters:

The filter expression must be a valid WHERE clause for the table or view.
Each table or view should have its own row-level filter policy.
Wildcard matching is not supported on database or table names.
Filters are evaluated in the order listed in the policy.
An audit log entry is generated each time a row-level filter is applied to a table
               or view.



On the Service Manager page, select an existing Hive Service.

Select the Row Level Filter tab, then click Add New Policy.






On the Create Policy page, add the following information for the row-level filter:


Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description




Policy Name
(required)

Enter an appropriate policy name. This name cannot be
                                 duplicated across the system. The policy is enabled by default.
                              


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When override
                                 is selected, the access permissions in the policy override the
                                 access permissions in existing policies. This feature can be used
                                 with Add Validity Period to create temporary access policies that
                                 override existing policies. 



Hive Database
(required)


Type in the applicable database name. The auto-complete feature
                                    displays available databases based on the entered text.




Hive Table
(required)


Type in the applicable table name. The auto-complete feature
                                    displays available tables based on the entered text.



Audit Logging
Audit Logging is set to Yes by default. Select No
                                 to turn off audit logging. 


Description
Enter an optional description for the policy.


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Table 2. Row Filter Conditions




Label






Description






Select Role
Specify the roles to which this policy applies. 


Select Group 

Specify the groups to which this policy applies.
The public group contains all users, so granting access
                                    to the public group grants access to all users.



Select User
Specify one or more users to which this policy applies.


Access Types
Currently select is the only available access type. This
                                 will be used in conjunction with the WHERE clause specified in the
                                 Row Level Filter field. 


Add Row Filter


To create a row filter for the specified users, groups, and
                                       roles, Click Add Row Filter, then type a valid WHERE
                                       clause in the Enter filter expression box.
To allow Select access for the specified users and groups
                                       without row-level restrictions, do not add a row filter
                                       (leave the setting as "Add Row Filter").
Filters are evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The
                                       filter at the top of the Row Filter Conditions list is
                                       applied first, then the second, then the third, and so
                                       on.












To move a condition in the Row Filter Conditions list (and therefore change the
               order in which it is evaluated), click the dotted rows icon at the left of the
               condition row, then drag the condition to a new position in the list.






Click Add to add the new row-level filter policy.

Parent topic: Row-level filtering and column masking in Hive