Configure a resource-based service: HDFSCloudera Docs
Configure a resource-based service: HDFS
How to add an HDFS service.

On the Service Manager page, click the Add icon () next to HDFS.
The Create Service page appears.


Enter the following information on the Create Service page:

Table 1. Service Details




Field name






Description







Service Name


The name of the service; required when configuring agents.




Description


A description of the service.




Active Status


Enabled or Disabled.



Select Tag Service
Select a tag-based service to apply the service and its tag-based
                              policies to HDFS.  


Table 2. Configuration Properties




Field name






Description







Username


The end system username that can be used for connection.




Password


The password for the username entered above.




NameNode URL


hdfs://NAMENODE_FQDN:8020

The location of the Hadoop HDFS service, as noted in the hadoop
                                 configuration file core-site.xml OR (if this is a HA environment)
                                 the path for the primary NameNode.
This field was formerly named fs.defaultFS.




Authorization Enabled


Authorization involves restricting access to resources. If enabled,
                                 user need authorization credentials.




Authentication Type


The type of authorization in use, as noted in the hadoop
                                 configuration file core-site.xml; either simple or
                                    Kerberos. (Required only if authorization is
                                 enabled).
This field was formerly named hadoop.security.authorization.




hadoop.security.auth_to_local


Maps the login credential to a username with Hadoop; use the value
                                 noted in the hadoop configuration file, core-site.xml.




dfs.datanode.kerberos.principal


The principal associated with the datanode where the service
                                 resides, as noted in the hadoop configuration file hdfs-site.xml.
                                 (Required only if Kerberos authentication is enabled).




dfs.namenode.kerberos.principal


The principal associated with the NameNode where the service
                                 resides, as noted in the hadoop configuration file hdfs-site.xml.
                                 (Required only if Kerberos authentication is enabled).




dfs.secondary.namenode.kerberos.principal


The principal associated with the secondary NameNode where the
                                 service resides, as noted in the hadoop configuration file
                                 hdfs-site.xml. (Required only if Kerberos authentication is
                                 enabled).




RPC Protection Type


Only authorised user can view, use, and contribute to a dataset. A
                                 list of protection values for secured SASL connections. Values:
                                 Authentication, Integrity, Privacy




Common Name For Certificate


The name of the certificate.
This field is interchangeably named Common Name For
                                    Certificate and Ranger Plugin SSL
                                    CName in Create Service pages.




Add New Configurations


Add any other new configuration(s).





Click Test Connection.

Click Add.


Parent topic: Configuring resource-based services