Adding a Ranger security zoneCloudera Docs
Adding a Ranger security zone
How to add a new Ranger Security Zone.

Click Security Zone in the top menu.

The Security Zone page appears.


On the Security Zone page, click the + icon.






The Create Zone page appears.







Complete the Create Zone page as follows:

Table 1. Zone Details

Field
Description



Zone Name
The security zone name.


Zone Description
An optional description. 


Table 2. Zone Administration

Field
Description



Admin Users
The Admin users for the security zone. 


Admin Usergroups
The Admin user groups for the security zone. 


Auditor Users
The Auditor users for the security zone. 


Auditor Usergroups
The Auditor user groups for the security zone. 


Table 3. Services




Label






Description






Select Tag Services
Select tag-based services for the security zone.


Select Resource Services
Select resource-based services for the security zone. 




Selected Services are listed in the Services table. To add resources for each
               selected service, click the + icon in the Resources column for the applicable
               service.






Use the Add/Edit Resources pop-up to specify resources for the service, then click
                  Save.





The resources are listed in the Resources column of the Services table.
                  note The solr plugin supports fine-grained authorization
                  similar to legacy Sentry privileges. A part of this support introduces the
                  following new solr resources: collection, config, schema and admin. To perform any
                  operation on a collection, a user also requires admin-level permission. To create
                  a security zone for with the solr service that includes a collection resource, you
                  must also add an admin resource. Currently, if you use one solr service to create
                  a security zone that has a collection resource (and therefore includes an admin
                  resource) you cannot create another solr security zone using another collection.
                  (currently, only one admin resource can be used per solr security zone). This
                  limitation exists for security zones in cr-7.1.8. 

Click Save at the bottom of the Create Zone page to save the new security
               zone. 






The new security zone is listed on the Security Zone page. 






To edit a security zone, click the security zone name in the Security Zones list,
               then click Edit. 

After security zones have been created, you can use the Security Zone selection box
               on the Service Manager page to display the services assigned to the selected security
               zone. A Zone Name column appears in the table on the Audit > Access page, and also in
               the Access Manager > Reports tables. 







Parent topic: Ranger Security Zones