Configure a resource-based policy: KnoxCloudera Docs
Configure a resource-based policy: Knox
How to add a new policy to an existing Knox service.

On the Service Manager page, select an existing Knox service.
The List of Policies page appears. 

Click Add New Policy.
The Create Policy page appears.




Complete the Create Policy page as follows:

Table 1. Policy Details

Field
Description



Policy Name
Enter an appropriate policy name. This name cannot be duplicated
                              across the system. This field is mandatory.


normal/override
Enables you to specify an override policy. When override is
                              selected, the access permissions in the policy override the access
                              permissions in existing policies. This feature can be used with Add
                              Validity Period to create temporary access policies that override
                              existing policies. 


Knox Topology
Enter an appropriate Topology Name.


Knox Service
Enter an appropriate Service Name.


Description
(Optional) Describe the purpose of the policy.


Audit Logging
Specify whether this policy is audited. (De-select to disable
                              auditing).


Policy Label
Specify a label for this policy. You can search reports and filter
                              policies based on these labels.


Add Validity Period
Specify a start and end time for the policy.


Policy Conditions (applied at the policy level)
Click the + icon, then specify an IP address range.


Table 2. Allow Conditions




Label






Description






Select Role
Specify the roles to which this policy applies. To designate a
                                 role as an Administrator, select the Delegate Admin check
                                 box. Administrators can edit or delete the policy, and can also
                                 create child policies based on the original policy.


Select Group 

Specify the groups to which this policy applies. 
To designate a group as an Administrator, select the Delegate
                                    Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                 policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                 policy.
The public group contains all users, so granting access to
                                 the public group grants access to all users.



Select User

Specify the users to which this policy applies. 
To designate a user as an Administrator, select the Delegate
                                    Admin check box. Administrators can edit or delete the
                                 policy, and can also create child policies based on the original
                                 policy.



Policy Conditions (applied at the item level)
Specify an IP address range.


Permissions
Add or edit permissions: Allow


Delegate Admin
You can use Delegate Admin to assign administrator privileges to
                              the roles, groups, or users specified in the policy. Administrators
                              can edit or delete the policy, and can also create child policies
                              based on the original policy.


Since Knox does not provide a command line methodology for assigning privileges or
                  roles to users, the User and Group Permissions portion of the Knox Create Policy
                  form is especially important.


You can use the Plus (+) symbol to add additional conditions. Conditions are
               evaluated in the order listed in the policy. The condition at the top of the list is
               applied first, then the second, then the third, and so on.

You can use Deny All Other Accesses to deny access to all other users,
               groups, and roles other than those specified in the allow conditions for the policy.
            

Click Add.


Related informationWildcards and variables in resource-based policiesParent topic: Configuring resource-based policies