Importing and exporting tag-based policiesCloudera Docs
Importing and exporting tag-based policies
You can export and import policies from the Ranger Admin UI for cluster resiliency
      (backups), during recovery operations, or when moving policies from test clusters to
      production clusters. You can import or export a specific subset of policies (such as those
      that pertain to specific resources or user/groups) or clone the entire repository (or multiple
      repositories) via the Ranger Admin UI.

Interfaces

You can import and export policies from the Tag Based Policies page: 

You can also export policies from the Reports page:



Table 1. Export Policy Options


Service Manager Page
Reports Page



Formats
JSON

JSON
Excel
CSV



Filtering Supported
No
Yes


Specific Service Export
Yes
Via filtering



Filtering

When exporting from the Reports page, you can apply filters before saving the
          file.

Export Formats

You can export policies in the following formats:

Excel


JSON


CSV
Note: CSV format is not supported for importing policies.

When you export policies from the Service Manager page, the policies are
          automatically downloaded in JSON format. If you wish to export in Excel or CSV format,
          export the policies from the Reports page dropdown menu.

Required User Roles

The Ranger admin user can import and export only Resource & Tag based policies.
          The credentials for this user are set in Ranger Configs > Advanced
            ranger-env in the fields labeled admin_username (default:
            admin/admin).
The Ranger KMS keyadmin user can import and export only KMS policies. The default
          credentials for this user are keyadmin/keyadmin.

Limitations

To successfully import policies, use the following database versions:

MariaDB: 10.1.16+


MySQL: 5.6.x+


Oracle: 11gR2+


PostgreSQL: 8.4+


MS SQL: 2008 R2+



Partial policy import is not supported.

Related informationImporting and exporting resource-based policiesImport tag-based policiesHow to import tag-based policies. Export tag-based policiesHow to export all tag-based policies. Parent topic: Tag-based Services and Policies