Ranger tag-based policiesCloudera Docs
Ranger tag-based policies
Ranger enables you to create tag-based services and add access policies to those
        services.Tag-Based Policies Overview


An important feature of Ranger tag-based authorization is the separation of
                resource-classification from access-authorization. For example, resources (HDFS
                file/directory, Hive database/table/column etc.) containing sensitive data such as
                social security numbers, credit card numbers, or sensitive health care data can be
                tagged with PII/PCI/PHI – either as the resource enters the Hadoop ecosystem or at a
                later time. Once a resource is tagged, the authorization for the tag would be
                automatically enforced, thus eliminating the need to create or update policies for
                the resource.


Using tag-based policies also enables you to control access to resources across
                multiple Hadoop components without creating separate services and policies in each
                component.


Tag details are stored in a tag store. Ranger TagSync can be used to synchronize
                the tag store with an external metadata service such as Apache Atlas.



Tag Store
Details of tags associated with resources are stored in a tag store. Apache Ranger
                plugins retrieve the tag details from the tag store for use during policy
                evaluation. To minimize the performance impact during policy evaluation (in finding
                tags for resources), Apache Ranger plugins cache the tags and periodically poll the
                tag store for any changes. When a change is detected, the plugins update the cache.
                In addition, the plugins store the tag details in a local cache file – just as the
                policies are stored in a local cache file. On component restart, the plugins will
                use the tag data from the local cache file if the tag store is not reachable.
Apache Ranger plugins download the tag details from the store managed by Ranger
                Admin. Ranger Admin persists the tag details in its policy store and provides a REST
                interface for the plugins to download the tag details.

Tags
Ranger Tags can have attributes. Tag attribute values can be used in Ranger tag-based
                policies to influence the authorization decision.
For example, to deny access to a resource after a specific date:

Add the EXPIRES_ON tag to the resource.
Add an exipry_date tag attribute and set its value to the
                    expiry date.
Create a Ranger policy for the EXPIRES_ON tag.
Add a condition in this policy to deny access when the date specified the in
                        expiry_date tag attribute is later than the current
                    date.

Note that the EXPIRES_ON tag policy is created as the default policy in tag service
                instances.

TagSync
Ranger TagSync is used to synchronize the tag store with an external metadata service
                such as Apache Atlas. TagSync is a daemon process similar to the Ranger UserSync
                process.
Ranger TagSync receives tag details from Apache Atlas via change notifications. As
                tags are added to, updated, or deleted from resources in Apache Atlas, Ranger
                TagSync receives notifications and updates the tag store.

Parent topic: Ranger Policies Overview