Column encodingCloudera Docs
Column encoding
Depending on the type of the column, Kudu columns can be created with the following
      encoding types.


              Plain Encoding
            


                Data is stored in its natural format. For example, int32 values
                are stored as fixed-size 32-bit little-endian integers.
              


              Bitshuffle Encoding
            


                A block of values is rearranged to store the most significant bit of every
                value, followed by the second most significant bit of every value, and so on.
                Finally, the result is LZ4 compressed. Bitshuffle encoding is a good choice for
                columns that have many repeated values, or values that change by small amounts
                when sorted by primary key. The bitshuffle project has a good overview of
                performance and use cases.
              


              Run Length Encoding
            


Runs (consecutive repeated values) are compressed in a column by storing
                only the value and the count. Run length encoding is effective for columns with
                many consecutive repeated values when sorted by primary key.
              


              Dictionary Encoding
            

Dictionary encoding can be used for BINARY or STRING columns. A
                  dictionary of unique values is built, and each column value is encoded as its
                  corresponding index in the dictionary. Dictionary encoding is effective for
                  columns with low cardinality. If the column values of a given row set are unable
                  to be compressed because the number of unique values is too high, Kudu will
                  transparently fall back to plain encoding for that row set. This is evaluated
                  during flush. 


              Prefix Encoding
            


                Common prefixes are compressed in consecutive column values. Prefix encoding can
                be effective for values that share common prefixes, or the first column of the
                primary key, since rows are sorted by primary key within tablets.
              



          Each column in a Kudu table can be created with an encoding, based on the type of the
          column. Starting with Kudu 1.3, default encodings are specific to each column type.
        



                  Column Type
                

                  Encoding
                

                  Default
                





int8, int16, int32, int64




plain, bitshuffle, run length




bitshuffle






date, unixtime_micros




plain, bitshuffle, run length




bitshuffle






float, double




plain, bitshuffle




bitshuffle






bool




plain, run length




run length






string, varchar, binary




plain, prefix, dictionary




dictionary





Parent topic: Column design