Fixed issuesCloudera Docs
Fixed issues
Review the list of Flink and SQL Stream Builder issues that are resolved in Cloudera
  Streaming Analytics 1.10.0.


CSA-3754 - The display name of the loadbalancer.url property should be
     "Load Balancer Host"
The issue regarding the loadbalancer.url property
     being duplicated in Cloudera Manager for SQL Stream Builder configuration is fixed.


CSA-4030 - Webhook sending fails when webhook template is empty
     string
The issue about creating a webhook table when the template is empty is
     fixed.


CSA-4333 - Use Kafka Timestamps switch reflects invalid value
The issue about incorrect status of the Kafka Timestamp configuration
     when viewing DDL is fixed.


CSA-4370 - Virtual tables imported from a schema in a Schema Catalog
     fail to describe correctly
The issue regarding the describe error for Virtual Tables using
     schemas in a Schema Registry Catalog is fixed.


CSA-4400 - Cannot delete invalid catalog
The issue regarding invalid catalogs can be registered, but cannot be
     deleted is fixed.


CSA-4412 - Cannot delete mv endpoint when it contains dynamic
     parameters
The issue regarding Materialized View endpoint cannot be deleted when
     using dynamic parameters is fixed.


CSA-4425 - Password in Kafka Data Source can be revealed after
     save
The issue regarding viewing the password after saving the Kafka Data
     Source is fixed.


CSA-4426 - Kafka Data Source name accepts spaces
The issue about accepting Kafka Data Sources with spaces in their name
     is fixed.


CSA-4427 - State of Execute and Stop options in Job context menu do
     not correspond the Job state
The issue regarding the invalid property in the upsert Kafka table
     template is fixed.


CSA-4428 - upsert-kafka template has an invalid property
The issue regarding the invalid property in the upsert Kafka table
     template is fixed.


CSA-4548 - Files cannot be uploaded through Swagger
The issue about the error when uploading files using REST API with
     Swagger is fixed.


CSA-4620 - Encryption for environment properties
The issue regarding encrypted environment properties is fixed.


CSA-4643 - flink-yarn-session is ignoring command line parameters
The issue regarding the ignored parameters that added to the
     flink-yarn-session in command line is fixed.


FLINK-18027 - ROW value constructor cannot deal with complex
     expressions
The fix regarding the Calcite error in FLINK-18027 is backported.



