Activating an environment in CDW Private CloudCloudera Docs
Activating an environment in CDW Private Cloud
An environment is a logical entity that represents the association of your Private Cloud
  user account with the compute resources. After you register your OpenShift or Embedded Container Service (ECS) environment with CDP, activate the environment in
  Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) to set up a Database Catalog and create Virtual Warehouses.
  Activating an environment causes CDP to connect to the Kubernetes cluster, which provides the
  computing resources for the Database Catalog. This is the first step in setting up
  CDW.
Activating OpenShift environments
noteIf you have more than one OCP clusters managed using different
    instances of Cloudera Manager, but using the same AD server and using the same environment name,
    then go to the Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings page and disable the Use deterministic namespace names
    option before activating the environment in CDW.

Log in to the Data Warehouse service as an DWAdmin.
Expand the Environments column by clicking
      More… and locate the environment that you want to activate.
Click on the activate icon.
Specify the storage class name, delegation username and password, and the authentication
     mode to use for connecting to Hive Virtual Warehosues and click
      ACTIVATE.For local caching, ensure that the platform administrator
      uses the Local Storage Operator to create a local file system on an SSD/NVMe for each
      OpenShift worker node and then mounts it to a known location on the worker node. Make sure
      that this local caching location allows temporary data to be stored in a way that supports
      performance.The delegation user and password can authenticate users through an LDAP
      service account.


Activating ECS environments
noteA “default” environment is created by the Control Plane service when
    you add a Private Cloud cluster. If you have more than one ECS clusters managed using different
    instances of Cloudera manager, but using the same Active Directory (AD) server and using the
    same “default” environment, then go to the Advanced Configuration > Advanced Settings page and disable the Use deterministic namespace names
    option before activating the environment in CDW.

Log in to the Data Warehouse service as an DWAdmin.
Expand the Environments column by clicking
      More… and locate the environment that you want to activate.
Click on the activate icon.
Specify the delegation username and password to impersonate authorization requests from Hue
     to the Impala engine, and then click ACTIVATE.The delegation user and
      password can authenticate users through an LDAP service account.


Next steps
A default database Catalog is automatically created when you activate an environment in CDW.
    After the Database Catalog is created, you can create Hive, Impala, or Impala Virtual Warehouses
    with the Unified Analytics mode.
If Analysts in your organization use JDBC or ODBC SQL clients, then you can download the
    drivers from the CDW UI and connect them to the Virtual Warehouses. Analysts can also use Hue,
    the built-in SQL editor to query and explore data.
You can also link to Cloudera Data Visualization instance from the CDW UI which line of
    business users can use to visualize data and gain insights.


