Engine Environment VariablesCloudera Docs
Engine Environment Variables
This topic describes how engine environmental variables work. It
    also lists the different scopes at which they can be set and the order of
    precedence that will be followed in case of conflicts. 
Environmental variables allow you to customize engine environments for
      projects. For example, if you need to configure a particular timezone for
      a project, or increase the length of the session/job timeout windows, you
      can use environmental variables to do so. Environmental variables can also
      be used to assign variable names to secrets such as passwords or
      authentication tokens to avoid including these directly in the code. 
In general, Cloudera recommends that you do not include passwords,
      tokens, or any other secrets directly in your code because anyone with
      read access to your project will be able to view this information. A
      better place to store secrets is in your project's environment variables,
      where only project collaborators and admins have view access. They can
      therefore be used to securely store confidential information such as your
      AWS keys or database credentials.
Cloudera Machine Learning allows you to define environmental
      variables for the following scopes: 
Global

A site administrator for your Cloudera Machine Learning
              deployment can set environmental variables on a global level.
              These values will apply to every project on the deployment.
To set global environmental variables, go to Admin > Runtime/Engines.

Project

Project administrators can set project-specific environmental
              variables to customize the engines launched for a project.
              Variables set here will override the global values set in the site
              administration panel.
To set environmental variables for a project, go to the
                     project's Overview page and click Settings > Advanced. 

Job

Environments for individual jobs within a project can be
              customized while creating the job. Variables set per-job will
              override the project-level and global settings.
To set environmental variables for a job, go to the job's
              Overview page and click Settings >  Set Environmental
                  Variables. 

Experiments

Engines created for execution of experiments are completely
              isolated from the project. However, these engines inherit values
              from environmental variables set at the project-level and/or
              global level. Variables set at the project-level will override the
              global values set in the site administration panel.

Models

Model environments are completely isolated from the project.
                     Environmental variables for these engines can be configured during the build
                     stage of the model deployment process. Models will also inherit any environment
                     variables set at the project and global level. However, variables set per-model
                     build will override other settings.




Related informationBasic Concepts and TerminologyEngine Environment VariablesThe following table lists Cloudera Machine Learning     environment variables that you can use to customize your project     environments. These can be set either as a site administrator or within the     scope of a project or a job.Accessing Environmental Variables from ProjectsThis topic shows you how to access environmental variables from     your code. 