Using Basic searchCloudera Docs
Using Basic search
Search using an entity type in Basic Search.
With Basic Search, Atlas returns all of the entities of the type you
      select. 
There are many ways you can define a Basic Search. Setting a value in
      more than one search field builds a logical AND condition for the search.
      To repeat the same search, click the Refresh button. 

Search By Type
Choose an entity type to limit the search.
Choose _ALL_ENTITY_TYPES to apply an attribute filter across all
          entity types.

Search By Type and specify attribute values
          using the Filter 

The Attribute Filter dialog box lists all the attributes that
            correspond to the selected entity type, including:
Technical attributes specific to the entity type
System attributes, including classifications, labels, and user-defined
              properties
Business Metadata attributes
Terms


noteWhen searching on classifications in the Search By Type
              filter, use "contains" rather than "=" for the filter operator. If
              there is more than one classification assigned to an entity,
              "contains" matches a single classification name; equal only
              matches the entire list of classifications names.

Search By Classification


Choose an existing classification; the search returns all entities
          that have that classification assigned to them.
Choose _ALL_CLASSIFICATION_TYPES to apply an attribute filter across
          all classifications.
Choose _CLASSIFIED or _NOT_CLASSIFIED with an entity type selected
          to find entities of that type with any or no classifications
          assigned.

Search By Classification and specify attribute
          values using the Filter 
The Attribute Filter dialog box lists all the attributes for the
          selected classification; set a value to one or more attributes to
          define the search. You can choose to match partial strings using the
          "contains", "begins with", and "ends with" operators.
Search by Term
Choose an existing glossary term. You can enter the first few letters to
      select a term from a list of matching terms. This filter is
      case-sensitive.
Search by Text
Search on string values for technical, system, Business Metadata, and
      classification attribute values. Labels and terms are also included. This
      search is the same as the Free-Text search; note that when you enter text
      in the Free-Text search box, it fills in this Search By Text field
      also.
You can also save these searches when they are useful to run more than
      once.

Related informationUsing Free-text SearchSearching for entities using Business Metadata attributesSearching for entities using termsSearching for entities using classificationsSaving searchesApache Atlas metadata attributesUsing Search filtersBasic search enhancementWhile performing basic search in Atlas you can exclude header attributes of entities   from the response and avoid issues like latency.