Launching applicationsCloudera Docs
Launching applications
CDP Data Visualization enables you to externalize an app by launching it.

Navigate to the app you plan to launch. We are using the app Exploring National
            Parks.

In the top navigation bar of App Designer, click Launch
          App.


A new tab appears in your browser window.

Open the tab to see the standalone application you just created.

The standalone application has the following features:

The externalized application is fully interactive.
The tabs across the top correspond to the names of the apps you defined in the App
              Designer. The sub-menus correspond to the names of the dashboards; they appear only
              when there is more than one dashboard in each tab.
The tabs at the bottom correspond to the individual sheets in each dashboard. They
              appear only if the dashboard has two or more sheets.
The (filter) icon at the top-right corner correspond to the
              same navigation elements as you would see in a dashboard, Current
                Parameters.
The Back navigation icon, (back
              arrow), moves the dashboard backward to the previous parameter state. You
              can also use the shortcut keys CTRL + B.
The Forward navigation icon, (forward
                arrow), moves the dashboard forward to the next parameter state. You can
              also use the shortcut keys CTRL + F.
The Reset navigation icon resets the parameters to the
              original state of the dashboard. You can also use the shortcut keys CTRL +
                R.
The Supplemental menu, marked with the (ellipsis)  icon, has
              additional options, such as Get URL. It shows the specific URL
              address that you can copy and share with others. Pasting this URL into a browser
              brings up the identical app, opens at the very same visual or dashboard, with
              specified parameters.The URL is of the following
                type:ip_address:port/arc/appgroup/app-id?initialapp=vis-id&sheet=sheet_id
  &param.parameter_name.data='data_list'&param.parameter_name.
  exclude=[in|out]
                where:
ip-address and
                    port specify the server
app-id is the integer that specifies the id of
                  the externalized (launched) app
vis-id is the integer that specifies the id of
                  the dashboard or visual
sheet-id is the integer that represents the sheet
                  order
parameter_name is the name of the filter
                  parameter, if present
data_list is the list of values that apply to the
                    parameter_name variable
in the exclude setting, in|out
                  specifies the include/exclude setting of the parameter.

At the level of visuals inside the dashboards, hovering over the top right corner
              enables you to download the data as CSV by clicking the  (download
                CSV)icon.
You can click the (expand visual) icon to bring up the visual
              in a window modal, superimposed over the application.
The zoom in - zoom out control is part of the control
              mechanism for particular visual types, for example interactive maps.







