Importing an applicationCloudera Docs
Importing an application
In CDP Data Visualization, you can import dashboards, apps and other visual artifacts
    exported from another system. All you need the is appropriate .json file that
    captures the complete definition of the app, including its dependencies: its own app definition,
    subgroup app definitions, visuals, dashboards, datasets, and custom styles.

Click DATA on the main navigation
          bar.

Select the connection where to import the artifacts.

In this example Samples has been selected showing connecting to the same data
            source for both systems.


At the top of the screen, click the Supplemental menu.

In the Supplemental menu, click the Import Visual
            Artifacts option.




The Import Visual Artifacts modal window appears.





Click Choose File.

Select the file you want to import.

Specify the destination workspace in the Import to Workspace
          drop-down menu.
By default, Data Visualization imports the visual artifacts into your Private
          workspace. However, you can choose the Public workspace, or another custom
          workspace as well. 

Specify how you want to handle thumbnails.
There are three options: 
Import from the file
Generate new thumbnails
Skip thumbnail import
 By default, Data Visualization imports the thumbnails from the file. However, you
          can choose to generate new thumbnails during the import process, or skip thumbnail import.
        

Define the Disregard artifacts that exist in other workspaces
          option.
Before importing an artifact, Data Visualization searches for it on the system. If it
          already exists, it is either updated (if changed from a previous import), or left 'as is'.
          If it does not exist, it is imported as a new visual artifact. By default, the search
          domain is the entire system. By selecting this option, you are limiting the search to the
          specified workspace.

Select the Check data table compatibility option.
This option is 'on' by default.

Click IMPORT.

After processing the import .json file, Data Visualization opens the
              Import interface to show its visual artifacts. In this example,
            it displays the visual artifacts that you saved earlier into a .json
            file during export. All items saved into the
              app_documentation_collateral.json file during export appear on the
            interface. The Planned Action column shows that this is a new
            import for some artifacts and they don't have an assigned ID.
In the Importing a dashboard example, the dashboard Flight Delay Information,
            and its dependencies: visuals Departure Delay by Airline & Day of the week,
              Originating Airport, and Originating Airport by State, the Custom
              Style Category colors in tables, and the dataset Flight Data were all
            imported. For details, see Importing a dashboard. The dataset has changed
            (the description parameter was edited), so the Planned Action is
            to Replace. The rest of these artifacts is unchanged, so they
            appear with Planned Action set to
            None.


Click ACCEPT AND IMPORT.






After the import completes, a success message appears on the
        Import interface. All the artifacts have an assigned ID, which are
      generated by the system, sequentially. Visuals/Dashboards and datasets have separate ID
      queues. 


For instructions on how to export an app, see Exporting an application.
For more information about the visual artifact migration utility, see Exporting and
          importing visual artifacts.


Related informationExporting an applicationExporting and importing visual artifacts