HBase MCC ConfigurationsCloudera Docs
HBase MCC Configurations
HBase Multi-cluster Client (MCC) provides various configuration parameters to set up
  clusters, mode, and different connection related properties.
hbase.mcc.failover.clusters
This is a comma separated list of cluster names that represent the clusters available when
    running MCC. The first cluster in the list is the primary cluster. If this cluster fails to
    respond, the requests are routed to the next cluster in line. This configuration is
    automatically generated based on N+ number of clusters in the submission.
The following example shows an uber
    configuration.hbase.failover.clusters=hbase.mcc.cluster0,hbase.mcc.cluster1
hbase.mcc.cluster0.hbase.zookeeper.quorum=1.0.0.2
hbase.mcc.cluster1.hbase.zookeeper.quorum=1.0.0.3


noteAuto-configuration does not support building uber
     configuration.


hbase.mcc.failover.mode
The default value is set to true, this means that if the primary cluster fails, the code
    automatically attempts to execute on failover clusters until all failover clusters are
    exhausted. If set to false, the only attempt is on the primary or first cluster. If you are
    executing a put or delete when set to true and culter failover happens, HBase MCC executes the
    put or delete on the failover cluster.
This configuration is not applicable for the read or scan methods.

noteThis configuration does not apply to reads or scans. This is applied
     to puts or deletes.


hbase.mcc.connection.pool.size
The default value is set as 20. Part of java.util.concurrent.Executors
    creates a thread pool that reuses a fixed number of threads operating from a shared unbounded
    queue.

hbase.mcc.allow.check.and.mutate
The default value is false that disables the checkAndMutate function on the
    Table class.

hbase.mcc.wait.time.before.trying.primary.after.failure
The default value is 30000 milliseconds (30 seconds). This is the default amount of time in
    milliseconds that the application waits before re-attempting the primary cluster after a failure
    and executing against a failover cluster. The cluster tracker uses this thread to check and
    ensure that a cluster is available before calls are routed to that cluster.

hbase.mcc.wait.time.before.enable.cluster
The default value is 10000 milliseconds (10 seconds). This represents the wait time to read
    the metadata for a cluster before the region server is actually available to read. If this
    number is too low, the system detects that the cluster is available from the metastore, tries to
    read or write from the cluster because the region server is decoupled from the meta and is not
    yet available. This additional buffer allows some time before the metadata is available for the
    region to become fully online.

hbase.mcc.buffered.mutator.behavior
The supported values are failover, replicate, and replay. The default value is failover. When
     BufferedMutator is used, there might be a data loss. When set to failover,
    HBase MCC writes to a single cluster connection. When a flush fails for that connection, it
    starts writing new mutations to the new connection. Any mutations that are part of the failure
    flush are lost. Data loss in BufferedMutator is caused when HBase puts are
    stored in client memory up until the point that a flush takes place. If that flush fails when a
    region server is down, data is not be persisted.
The second option is to configure BufferedMutator with replicate, which
    replicates all calls for mutations to all connections. When a connection fails, data is not lost
    because we are writing to another connection automatically.
The third option is to configure replay, this operation stores data in a cache until flush is
    called. When flush is called, HBase MCC attempts to write all data from the cache into the first
    available and active connection’s BufferedMutator followed by an immediate
    flush. If the flush is a success, the cache is cleared. If the flush fails, HBase MCC pushes the
    data to the next connection's BufferedMutator. This also helps to prevent
    data loss with BufferedMutator while not pushing to each cluster by default
    as an alternative to the replicate option.
In all cases with BufferedMutator, you could still have data loss on the
    cluster when services go down or if no cluster is available to write the data. You need to
    ensure that your application is ready to handle the failures as they happen.


Parent topic: Introduction to HBase Multi-cluster Client