Upgrade Checklist FAQCloudera Docs
Upgrade Checklist FAQ
During the preparation for an upgrade, Cloudera recommends carefully reviewing the
    questions and answers below.


What is the length of the available maintenance window?

Currently, Data Lake backup and restore requires a maintenance window,
              where no metadata changes occur. Furthermore, Data Hubs need to be stopped during an
              upgrade.
The CDP Public Cloud environment does not need to be upgraded in one go:
              you may opt to upgrade the Data Lake and all attached Data Hubs together, or start
              with the Data Lake upgrade only and perform individual Data Hub upgrades
              consecutively. Whether or not a Data Hub upgrade is required depends on the
              Runtime version of the Data Hub:

If your Data Hubs are on Runtime version 7.2.15 or earlier, they must run the same
                major/minor version of Runtime as the Data Lake. In this scenario, after a Data Lake
                upgrade you are required to upgrade any Data Hubs that are 7.2.15 or earlier to the
                same version as the Data Lake.
If your Data Hubs are on Runtime version 7.2.16 or later, they are compatible with
                  newer versions of the Data Lake (7.2.17 or later). You can independently
                upgrade your Data Hubs at a later time if you choose to, though it is not
                required.


What type of upgrade is required?
Currently, there are three types of upgrades available to Data Lake and Data Hub
            clusters: service pack upgrades; minor/major version upgrades; and OS upgrades. Service
            pack and minor/major version upgrades install a newer version of Cloudera Manager and/or
            Cloudera Runtime. OS upgrades for Data Lakes and Data Hubs are complementary and will
            bring the image of the cluster hosts to a newer version. If you plan to also perform an
            OS upgrade, plan the maintenance window accordingly.
Are ephemeral disks used for user or workload-related persistent data?

Major/minor version upgrades as well as service pack upgrades will bring
              Cloudera Manager and Cloudera Runtime to the selected version without impacting the
              underlying VM. However, OS upgrades will recreate the underlying VM with a fresh
              image, which results in the loss of any data stored on ephemeral disks.
If you are currently storing user or workload-related data on volumes using
              ephemeral disks, please reach out to Cloudera support while planning for the
              upgrade.

What Data Hub cluster templates are in use? Are you using custom templates?
Check whether in-place upgrade is supported for
            your built-in or custom data hub template. Depending on the type and version of the Data
            Hub, additional backup steps, manual configuration changes or post-upgrade steps may be required. Check
            specific steps for upgrading the OS if you use Flow Management.  Operational Database clusters have a
            different upgrade process. 
What is the size of the SDX / Data Lake metadata?
SDX metadata includes the Hive Metastore database, Ranger audit log index, as well as
            Atlas metadata. If you are planning to perform a Data Lake backup before an upgrade
            (which is recommended), prepare your maintenance window accordingly. CDP supports
            skipping the backup of certain metadata to reduce the time required for backup and
            restore operations.
Are you using Data Services?
If you have deployed Cloudera Data Engineering, Data Warehouse, Data Flow, or Machine
            Learning in your environment, be sure to check the Preparing for an upgrade
            topic to verify compatibility between the data service version and the Data Lake version
            or desired features/Runtime services.



Related informationPreparing for an upgrade