Hierarchical cross tabulation visualsCloudera Docs
Hierarchical cross tabulation visuals
Cloudera Data Visualization has an alternate solution for
        hierarchical dimension representation in cross tabulation visuals.

The following steps demonstrate how to create and configure a de facto
                dimensional hierarchy on the shelves of a cross tabulation visual. We are using
                dataset World Life Expectancy [data source
                    samples.world_life_expectancy], to build a cross tabulation
                table that can switch between representations at three different levels of data
                granularity.


Start a new cross tabulation visual on the World Life Expectancy dataset.
For more information,  see Cross tabulation.

Populate the shelves from the available Fields under
                        Dimensions and Measures in the
                        Data menu.


Under Dimensions, select
                                un_region and drag it over the
                                Dimensions shelf. Repeat with
                                un_subregion and country, adding
                            them under un_region. Note that your placement of these
                            fields is from the largest to the smallest, top to bottom.
Under Measures, select
                                population and drag it over
                                Measures shelf. Ensure that the default
                            aggregation is sum(population).






On the Row shelf, select the un_region
                    field and select Enable Expansion option in the Field
                    Properties panel.






On the Row shelf, on the un_subregion and the
            country field, click the Down arrow icon, and
          select Enable Expansion.

Click Refresh Visual.

The cross tabulation table appears with a Plus icon in
                        the un_region, un_subregion, and
                            country columns. This indicates that you can expand the
                        data in these columns. 
The sum(population) column shows the combined population for all
                            un_regions. 





To see more details, expand the un_region column of the visual by
          clicking the Plus icon under the column header.






Expand the un_subregion column of the visual by clicking the
            Plus icon in the field next to one of the
            un_region. We chose to expand Africa. 

When you expand Africa, it generates a complete tabulation aggregated by
              un_subregion.





Expand the country column of the visual by clicking the
            Plus icon in the field next to one of the
            un_subregions. We chose to expand Middle Africa.

When you expand Middle Africa, it generates a complete tabulation aggregated by
              country.





Change the title to Hierarchical Cross Tabulation of
                        Population.

At the top left corner of the Visual Designer, click
                        Save.


Related informationCross tabulation