Working with dimension hierarchiesCloudera Docs
Working with dimension hierarchies
Dimension hierarchies enable you to create complete visualizations with powerful drill
    down capability within a single visual, instead of relying on a complex interaction of two or
    more visuals inside an app.

Dimension hierarchies can be used with bar, line, area, and grouped bar visual types.
Data Visualization also provides an alternate solution for hierarchical dimension
        representation in cross tabulation visuals. See, Working with Hierarchical
          Cross-Tabulation Visuals 
The following steps demonstrate how to use Region, a dimensional hierarchy
        based on dataset World Life Expectancy [data source
          samples.world_life_expectancy], to build a bar chart that can switch
        between representations at three different levels of data granularity. To create this
        hierarchy, see Creating new dimension hierarchies.


Start a new bar visual on the World Life Expectancy dataset.For more
          information, see Bars.
In the Visual Designer interface, populate the shelves of the visual:


Under Dimensions, select the field Region
              (which is a dimensional hierarchy), and drag it onto the X Axis
              shelf.
Under Measures, select population and drag
              it onto the Y Axis shelf.






Click Refresh Visual.
The bar chart appears.
The legend along the X axis corresponds to the top level of the Region
            hierarchy, un_region.




Change the title to World Population - Hierarchy.

Click Close to switch to View
          mode, so you can examine the operation of the dimensional hierarchy in the visual.

Put the pointer over one of the data labels along the horizontal axis, and note that it
          changes color; this is because the data labels are link-enabled. Click one of the choices
          to drill down to a lower level of the hierarchy.

In the following graphic, we drilled down from Level 1: un_region =
              'Americas', to Level 2: un_subregion = 'South
              America', and then to Level 3: country.
Every time you move between the hierarchy levels, the scale of the vertical axis
            adjusts automatically.





Put the pointer over the label of the horizontal axis, and note that it change color;
          it is also link-enabled. You can click the horizontal axis label to go up the hierarchy
          levels.

In the following graphic, we moved from Level 3: country where
              un_region = 'America' and un_subregion = 'South
              America' to Level 2: un_subregion = 'South America'
            where un_region = 'America', and then to Level 1:
              un_region.






Related informationHierarchical cross tabulation visualsCreating new dimension hierarchiesBars