Setting up audit archiving in AWS using the CLICloudera Docs
Setting up audit archiving in AWS using the CLI
After you set up a credential for audit event archiving, you need to configure CDP.
    This process is not necessary if you used the UI to create the audit archiving credential and
    configure the data storage location.

Archiving configuration includes the following fields.

Field name
General description
Details


storage location
Where in cloud storage to save audit events
S3 bucket name. Use only the bucket name and not the "s3://" prefix
                  or any sub-folders. 


credential
Name of the credential to use when writing to cloud storage
credential name as saved in the control plane


enabled
A Boolean indicating whether archiving is enabled
true


storage region
Region where storage services should be accessed
AWS region, e.g., us-west-2


Create the credential for audit event archiving before configuring archiving itself. The
        credential is not tied to an environment, and exists outside of any environment, like the
        control plane itself. The associated role / permissions require write access to the storage
        location, including the ability to create files and folders.
The storage region is the region where the audit service (the control plane) accesses the
        cloud provider's storage service. For best results, this should be the same as the region
        where the control plane is running. Ideally, the bucket should be created in the same
        region. 
Required Role:
PowerUser


To call the API endpoint for configuring archiving, run the cdp audit
            configure-archiving command. To begin, include the optional
            --verify-only flag, which the service uses to first verify that the
          configuration works:

cdp audit configure-archiving \
  --storage-location <$MYBUCKET> \
  --credential-name myauditcredential \
  --storage-region <$HOME_REGION>
  --enabled
  --verify-only
For the credential-name parameter, use the CRN of the credential that
            you noted when you set up the credential for audit event archiving.
If successful, the command will archive a test audit event to the container.

Run cdp audit configure-archiving again, omitting the
            --verify-only option, to apply the configuration to the account of the
          caller. 
cdp audit configure-archiving \
  --storage-location <$MYBUCKET> \
  --credential-name myauditcredential \
  --storage-region <$HOME_REGION>
  --enabled

The command returns the archiving configuration for the account of the
          caller.You can also include the following options:
To disable archiving while retaining the other configuration information, use the
                --no-enabled option instead of the --enabled
              option.
To retrieve the current archiving configuration, use a command like the following
              (there are no required options):
cdp audit get-archiving-config



Parent topic: AWS setup for audit archiving