Configuring audit event archiving through the UICloudera Docs
Configuring audit event archiving through the UI
To configure archiving, you must create an AWS IAM role specifically for audit event
    archiving. Then create an audit credential using the cross-account role ARN. 
In AWS, create a new S3 bucket or designate an existing bucket
      for audit archiving. Be sure to block all public access. Audit events will be archived under
      the /cdp/cp folder, which will be created automatically by CDP.Required Role:
PowerUser

Log in to the CDP interface.

In the left-side navigation menu, click Global
              Settings > Audit Data Configuration and
          then click Create. 

Select the AWS icon.


Copy the cross-account access policy provided to you in the Create
            Cross-account Access Policy field,  substituting your bucket name where
          indicated.
From the AWS account hosting the bucket, create an IAM role for another AWS account, in
          this case, for the account running the CDP Control Plane.





Include the policy that you copied as the only one in the role.For detailed
            instructions on creating an AWS IAM cross-account role, see Create a cross-account IAM role, starting with
            "1. Log into the AWS Management Console." Although the audit event archiving credential
            requires a unique policy and cross-account Role ARN, the process is largely the same as
            creating a role-based credential during environment registration.
When you finish creating the new cross-account policy and role in AWS, copy the
          Role ARN from the Role Summary page in the AWS Management Console and
          return to CDP. Paste the Role ARN into the Cross-account role ARN
          field.Click Create.Configure the audit data location with the name of the S3 bucket that you
          designated as the audit archive bucket.Select the AWS region where storage services should be accessed.Use the toggle button to enable or disable audit log export to the configured
          storage location.Click Save.
Audit event archiving configuration is complete.

Parent topic: AWS setup for audit archiving