Derived dataCloudera Docs
Derived data
Derived data lets you to reference results in new queries, query stacking, and eases
        cohort analysis. Cloudera Data Visualization uses derived data for computed fields in data
        modeling, weighted sums and averages, custom binning, for set-based and group-based
        analysis, and for combining data from different data sources.
Derived data enables you to reference query results in new queries, in essence "stacking"
            results from sub-select queries. The derived data feature also supports cohort analysis,
            where a set of data from a report is used (joined back) in another report, and allows
            you to build computed columns for re-use.
noteBy default, the Derived Data option is turned off. It can be turned on by a user with
            administrative privileges; see Enabling derived data.
Derived Data is very useful in determining weighted averages and other, more complex
            calculations. For example, in the dataset World Life Expectancy, life
            expectancy is reported at the level of each country, for each year. If you wanted to
            determine the life expectancy by region or subregion, you have to calculate a weighted
            average of life expectancies. You can also parametrize derived data definitions using
            bracket notation. 
The following steps demonstrate how to use derived data on a table visual based on the
            dataset World Life Expectancy [data source
                samples.world_life_expectancy].

Place the fields un_region, un_subregion and
                    country on the Dimension shelf.
Place the field population, as sum(population), on
                the Measures shelf.
Place the field year on the Filters shelf,
                and change the expression to
                [year]=<<year_param:2000>>. This enables you to
                dynamically change derived data calculations. You must specify a default value in
                the parametrized expression.





Related informationDefining derived dataDefining additional derived dataUsing derived dataViewing derived data definitionsSaving derived dataDeleting derived data definitions