Deployment architecture for CDP Private CloudCloudera Docs
Deployment architecture for CDP Private Cloud
Describes the components and architecture of a basic Cloudera Observability environment
    deployed in CDP Private Cloud.
A Cloudera Observability environment for CDP Private Cloud comprises the following: 
Cloudera Environment, which is a secure and governed cloud
          service platform. The Cloudera Observability component services all run in the Control
          Plane of the Cloudera Observability framework. Users access the Cloudera Observability web
          user interface from the web host server in this framework.
Working Environment, which contains your Workload Clusters in
          your Workload environments, such as Production, Development, and Staging.
Workload Cluster, which is one or more CDP clusters managed by Cloudera Manager. Telemetry Publisher is associated with a
          cluster by Cloudera Manager.

The below diagram shows the communication between Cloudera Observability and your workload
      clusters through Telemetry Publisher. Where, the Cloudera Observability service, including its
      main component services, run in the Cloudera Control Plane and the area on the right, behind
      your firewall, is your Working Environment that contains the clusters and services required to
      run your workload jobs and queries. 
Cloudera Manager (not shown) manages one or more clusters in each of your working
      environments. Telemetry Publisher is enabled and configured for Cloudera Observability from
      each Cloudera Manager instance in your working environment.
For example, as shown in the diagram below, Customer A's Production environment contains two
      clusters that are both managed by one instance of Cloudera Manager, whereas the Development
      environment, which also contains two clusters, is managed by two instances of Cloudera
      Manager, one for each cluster. In this case, only one Telemetry Publisher service is enabled
      for the Production environment and two Telemetry Publisher services are enabled for the
      Development environment.
Telemetry Publisher collects and sends diagnostic information about jobs and queries from
      your Workload Clusters to Cloudera Observability. To ensure that all data transfer is secure
      between your Workload Clusters and Cloudera Observability, Telemetry Publisher communicates
      with Cloudera Observability’s endpoints using Transport Layer Security (TLS), as follows:

When a job or query is completed, Telemetry Publisher connects to the Cloudera Observability service and asks to upload the workload diagnostic information. Once the request is
        authorized and verified, Cloudera Observability replies with a signed S3 URL that can then
        be used to upload the workload diagnostic information by Telemetry Publisher.
When the URL is received, Telemetry Publisher performs a secure and direct protocol test
        using the Cloudera Observability S3 URL, before sending any diagnostic data.







Parent topic: Configuration tasks for CDP Private Cloud