Adding and starting an instance of Telemetry PublisherCloudera Docs
Adding and starting an instance of Telemetry Publisher
Describes how to associate a Workload cluster with Telemetry Publisher by designating
        a host cluster with the Telemetry Publisher service role and starting the Telemetry
        Publisher service for Cloudera Observability.

After configuring and adding the Telemetry Publisher credentials, the Telemetry
                Publisher service must be associated with your Working cluster by adding the
                Telemetry Publisher service role to a designated host and starting the Telemetry
                Publisher role instance.

Verify that you have configured and added the Telemetry
            Publisher credentials in Cloudera Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters and then locate and
                    select Cloudera Management Service.

Add the Telemetry Publisher role on the Cloudera Manager
                    Server nodes by doing the following:


From the Actions menu, select Add
                                Role Instances.
The Add Role Instances for Cloudera Management Service wizard
                            opens.


Click inside the Telemetry Publisher
                            field.
The Hosts Selected dialog box opens.


Select the check box of the host for the Telemetry Publisher and click
                                OK.
The wizard populates the Telemetry Publisher
                            field with the selected host name.


Click Continue.


In the Review Changes page, review your selection and click
                                Continue.



Start Telemetry Publisher by selecting the Instances
                    tab, selecting the Telemetry Publisher check box, and then from the
                        Actions for Selected menu, select
                        Start.

In the Start message, confirm starting the Telemetry Publisher Service on your
                    cluster by clicking Start.

Monitor the progress until the Successfully started service
                    message appears and then click Close. 


Parent topic: Configuring Telemetry Publisher