Cloudera Observability deployment architecture for CDP Public CloudCloudera Docs
Cloudera Observability deployment architecture for CDP Public Cloud
Describes the components and architecture of a basic Cloudera Observability environment
    deployed in CDP Public Cloud.
A Cloudera Observability environment for CDP Public Cloud comprises the following: 
Cloudera Environment, which is a secure and governed cloud
          service platform. The Cloudera Observability component services run in the Control Plane
          of the Cloudera Observability framework. Users access the Cloudera Observability web user
          interface from the web host server in this framework.
Working Environment, which contains your Workload Clusters in
          your Workload environments, such as Production, Development, and Staging.
Workload Cluster, which is one or more CDP clusters managed by
          Cloudera. Depending on your environment's Cloudera data service, Telemetry Publisher is
          associated with a cluster, virtual warehouse, or virtual cluster in a data service by
          either Cloudera Manager for a Data Hub service or by Databus WXM Client for CDE and CDW
          services.

The below Cloudera Observability Architecture for Public Cloud diagram
      shows the communication between Cloudera Observability and your workload clusters through
      either Telemetry Publisher or Databus WXM Client. Where, the Cloudera Observability service,
      including its main component services, run in the Cloudera Control Plane and the area on the
      right is your Working Environment that contains the clusters and services required to run your
      workload jobs and queries. 
Cloudera Management Console (not shown) manages the clusters and services in each of your
      working environments.
Telemetry Publisher and Databus WXM Client collect and send diagnostic information about jobs
      and queries from your Workload Clusters to Cloudera Observability. To ensure that all data
      transfers are secure between your Workload Clusters and Cloudera Observability, Telemetry
      Publisher and Databus WXM Client communicate with Cloudera Observability’s endpoints using
      Transport Layer Security (TLS), as follows:

When a job or query is completed, the Telemetry Publisher or Databus WXM Client  connects
        to the Cloudera Observability service and asks to upload the workload diagnostic
        information. Once the request is authorized and verified, Cloudera Observability replies
        with a signed S3 URL that can then be used to upload the workload diagnostic information by
        Telemetry Publisher or Databus WXM Client.
When the URL is received, Telemetry Publisher and Databus WXM Client perform a secure and
        direct protocol test using the Cloudera Observability S3 URL, before sending any diagnostic
        data.


Figure 1. Cloudera Observability Architecture for Public Cloud



The following diagram shows the services from which Telemetry Publisher collects diagnostic
      metrics in a Data Hub environment: 

Figure 2. Cloudera Data Hub Environment




The following diagrams show the services from which Databus WXM Client (formally named
      Databus Producer) collects diagnostic metrics in a Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) and a
      Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) working environment. Where, the Databus WXM Client continually
      communicates and checks for recently completed jobs and queries to see if there is any
      diagnostic data to transfer, such as task and event logs and job and query history files, with
      the Hive DDL History, LLAP History, and Impala History pollers (HiveDDLHistoryPoller,
      LlapHistoryPoller, and ImpalaHistoryPoller):

Figure 3. CDW Environment










Parent topic: Configuration tasks for CDP Public Cloud