Enabling the telemetry network communicationCloudera Docs
Enabling the telemetry network communication
Learn how to enable the network communication between Telemetry Publisher and Cloudera Observability.
Describes how to configure the host URL and access credentials for Telemetry
            Publisher.

Verify that you have the following values before enabling the Telemetry Publisher
                service, as you will be required to supply their values during this task.
The Telemetry Publisher access credentials, which are required to register
                        the Telemetry Publisher account.
The Databus endpoint EC2 service
                        URL for your cloud region:

For a Us-west-2 cloud region use:
                                    https://dbusapi.us-west-1.sigma.altus.cloudera.com
For a EU-central-1 cloud region use:
                                    https://dbusapi.eu-1.cdp.cloudera.com
For a AP-southeast-2 cloud region use:
                                    https://dbusapi.ap-1.cdp.cloudera.com





In a supported web browser on a Workload cluster, log in to Cloudera
                    Manager.

In Cloudera Manager, select Clusters, locate and select
                        Cloudera Management Service, and then select the
                        Configuration tab. 

Search for the Telemetry Publisher Advanced Configuration Snippet
                        (Safety Valve) for telemetrypublisher.conf property and in its
                    text field, enter one of the following according to your cloud region using the
                    Databus endpoint EC2 service URL that you recorded as a prerequisite for these
                    steps:


For a Us-west-2 cloud region enter:
                            telemetry.upload.job.logs=true
telemetry.altus.url=https://dbusapi.us-west-1.sigma.altus.cloudera.com
For a EU-central-1 cloud region enter:
                            telemetry.upload.job.logs=true
telemetry.altus.url=https://dbusapi.eu-1.cdp.cloudera.com
For a AP-southeast-2 cloud region enter:
                            telemetry.upload.job.logs=true
telemetry.altus.url=https://dbusapi.ap-1.cdp.cloudera.com



Click Save.

Back in the Cloudera Manager Home page, from the navigation panel, select
                        Administration and then External
                        Accounts.

tipYou can refresh Cloudera Manager and come
                        back to the Cloudera Manager Home page by clicking on the Cloudera Manager
                        icon at the top of the navigation panel.


In the External Accounts page, click the Altus
                        Credentials tab, which displays your resource access account
                    certificates.

Add a new Telemetry Publisher access account certificate by clicking
                        Add Access Key Authentication and then in the
                        Add Access Key Authentication dialog box do the
                    following:


In the Name field, enter an identifiable name
                            for the Telemetry Publisher access key account.


In the Access Key ID field, enter the Telemetry
                            Publisher access key text exactly as provided without trailing
                            spaces.


From the Private Key list, select
                                Choose File and then browse and select your
                            Telemetry Publisher private key file. 

noteThe Cloudera Observability Telemetry
                                Publisher credentials are not related to Altus, but act as a
                                pay-wall mechanism to use Cloudera Observability.



Click Add, which saves the credentials as an
                            Altus account certificate using the account name you provided and adds
                            it on the Altus Credentials External Accounts page. 



Back in the Cloudera Manager Home page, from the navigation panel, select
                        Administration and then
                        Settings.

Under the Filter CATEGORY section, select Altus, which
                    populates the Settings page with your Telemetry Publisher access key
                    accounts.

In the filtered result, select the Telemetry Publisher Altus account credential
                    that you require for this Workload Cluster. In this case, the name you provided
                    in step 7a.

Click Save Changes.

Rename your Workload cluster and add and start a role
            instance of the Telemetry Publisher service on the Cloudera Manager Server
            node.

Parent topic: Configuring Telemetry Publisher