Enabling telemetry for a Data Hub deploymentCloudera Docs
Enabling telemetry for a Data Hub deployment
Steps for enabling the collection of your workload analytic diagnostic data by
        Cloudera Telemetry Publisher, which is a service that collects and sends your workload
        diagnostic information about your job and query processes to Cloudera Observability.
The following procedure describes how to enable access to your workload diagnostic
            data by Telemetry Publisher for CDP clusters using a Data Hub service. By default, the
            collection of diagnostic data for a Data Hub service is disabled. Cloudera Observability collects diagnostic information about your environment and
                workloads using either Telemetry Publisher or Databus WXM Client:
For CDP clusters using a Data Hub service. Telemetry Publisher collects this
                        information and sends it to Cloudera Observability. By default, the
                            collection of diagnostic data is disabled. You enable telemetry when you
                            register and configure your Cloudera environment in the Cloudera
                            Management Console by turning on the Enable Workload
                                Analytics option.
                            For
                            more information on how to register your Cloudera environment and the
                            configuration settings, see the Register an AWS environment
                                from CDP UI topic in the Cloudera Docs Management
                                Console Public Cloud documentation, by clicking the
                                Related Information link
                            below.
For CDP clusters using Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) and/or Cloudera Data
                        Engineering (CDE) services, Databus WXM Client collects this information and
                        sends it to Cloudera Observability:

By default, the collection of diagnostic data is enabled for
                                    CDW. 
By default, the collection of diagnostic data is disabled for
                                    CDE. You enable telemetry when you enable your CDE service by
                                    selecting the Enable Workload Analytics
                                    check box. For more information on Enabling a Cloudera
                                        Data Engineering service, click the
                                        Related Information link below.




You must be logged in to the Cloudera Management Console and you must have completed
                all the prerequisite tasks for registering an environment that are described in the
                    Cloudera Docs Management Console Public Cloud documentation.
                For more information, click the Related Information link
                below.


From the Management Console navigation panel, select
                        Environments. 

In the Environment page, click Register
                    Environment.

In the Register Environment wizard, enter your required environment settings
                    using the wizard's instructions on its side panel for the General Information,
                    Data Access and Data Lake Scaling, Region, and Networking and Security pages.
                

In the Logs section on the Storage page, enter your log storage
                    requirements.

In the Telemetry section, slide the Enable
                        Workload Analytics toggle switch to the right and then confirm
                    this setting by clicking Enable. 

Click Register Environment.

Diagnostic information about your jobs, queries, and
            workloads are enabled for collection by Telemetry Publisher.

Related informationCloudera Management ConsoleRegister an AWS environment from CDP UIEnabling environment telemetryEnabling a Cloudera Data Engineering serviceParent topic: Configuration tasks for CDP Public Cloud