Security considerationsCloudera Docs
Security considerations
Describes the Cloudera security measures for Cloudera Observability.
Cloudera Observability security involves establishing secure connections, secure access
   authentication, and protecting customer and user data. 
Redaction
Cloudera Manager's Telemetry Publisher collects and sends diagnostic information about job and
    query processes to Cloudera Observability. As this diagnostic data may contain sensitive
    information it is important to mask this data on your Workload cluster in Cloudera Manager
    before Telemetry Publisher sends it to Cloudera Observability. For more information on
    redaction, see the related links below.

Data in motion
Cloudera Observability and its services run on a secure Cloudera Observability framework. The
    transfer of diagnostic data to Cloudera Observability from your Workload cluster is completed
    using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) and the Transport Layer Security (TLS)
    protocols and an authentication process. Access to Cloudera Observability requires that each
    Workload cluster is configured with the Altus access and private keys in Cloudera Manager, which
    are used by Telemetry Publisher to authenticate the connection and identify the owner of the
    data. The access key identifies the user making the API call, and the request is signed by the
    key, using public key encryption. The signature is verified by the service and then the request
    is processed. You create your Telemetry Publisher access keys in Cloudera Observability, and
    add, delete, and disable them from Cloudera Manager on your Workload cluster. For more
    information on creating Telemetry Publisher access keys, see the related link below.
noteThe API connections are always encrypted using the Transport Layer
    Security (TLS) protocol.

Data at rest
Your diagnostic data goes through several transformation processes before it is stored in the
     Cloudera Observability S3 bucket. The Cloudera Observability microservices that are granted
    access to the Cloudera Observability S3 bucket do so through the Amazon Web Services (AWS)
    Identity Access Management (IAM) service, which securely controls access to AWS resources and is
    managed by you. 
Furthermore, the AWS S3 Server Side encryption is used to encrypt your data at the object
    level. A dedicated AWS Key Management System (KMS) key is used for the encryption, and only the
     Cloudera Observability microservices are allowed to access the key. 

Data isolation
Cloudera Observability isolates data access at the customer account level, where each customer
    account has its own dedicated storage database that contains all the data owned by the account,
    including the account's clusters. This ensures that each account's data is only cross-cluster
    viewable and not cross-account viewable. 
All read access requests to Cloudera Observability use authentication, which identifies the
    customer account of the user before directing the user's queries to the database associated with
    the account. 

User access
Cloudera Observability supports resource access roles and privilege types that define who is
    entitled to access your Cloudera Observability Workload clusters and who is entitled to access
    and administer your Cloudera Observability Workload clusters. The user's identity and Cloudera Observability access rights, such as, the existence of a user account, the correct
    password, and the correct user role and access credentials, are validated each time a user logs
    in to the Cloudera Observability UI. For more information, see the related link below.
noteCloudera Observability does not support Impersonation.


Related informationCollecting Cloudera Observability diagnostic metricsRedacting dataGenerating Telemetry Publisher access credentialsManaging user access to workloadsParent topic: Configuration tasks for CDP Private Cloud