Network port requirements and connectivity verificationCloudera Docs
Network port requirements and connectivity verification
Lists the network port numbers and their respective protocols used by Cloudera Observability and dependent services.

noteTo enable communication, you may need to reconfigure or update your
    firewall.

Communication between Cloudera Observability and your Workload clusters is through Telemetry
      Publisher, which requires network communication with Network Load Balancer and the Cloudera Observability S3 bucket in the Cloudera Observability framework. 
Telemetry Publisher collects and sends diagnostic information about job and query processes
      from your Workload clusters to Cloudera Observability. It communicates with Cloudera Observability, and its S3 bucket through Network Load Balancer using the Hypertext
      Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) and the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols. 
The following table lists the Network Load Balancer and the Cloudera Observability S3 bucket
   host names and the port numbers that must be enabled for service-to-service network communication
   between Telemetry Publisher and Cloudera Observability:
Table 1. Network Port Numbers

Port Number
Host Name



443
Host names for a Us-west-2 cloud region:
dbusapi.us-west-1.sigma.altus.cloudera.com
cloudera-dbus-prod.s3.amazonaws.com



443
Host names for a EU-central-1 cloud region:
dbusapi.eu-1.cdp.cloudera.com
mow-prod-eu-central-1-sigmadbus-dbus.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com



443
Host names for a AP-southeast-2 cloud region:
dbusapi.ap-1.cdp.cloudera.com
mow-prod-ap-southeast-2-sigmadbus-dbus.s3.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com



Verification of Network Connectivity between Telemetry Publisher and Cloudera Observability
Cloudera recommends verifying access from Telemetry Publisher to Network Load Balancer and the
     Cloudera Observability S3 bucket on port 443, by running the following commands for your cloud
     region:
For a Us-west-2 cloud region
            run:curl -v https://dbusapi.us-west-1.sigma.altus.cloudera.com:443curl -v https://cloudera-dbus-prod.s3.amazonaws.com:443
For a EU-central-1 cloud region run:
            curl -v https://dbusapi.eu-1.cdp.cloudera.com:443curl -v https://mow-prod-eu-central-1-sigmadbus-dbus.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com:443
For a AP-southeast-2 cloud region
            run:curl -v https://dbusapi.ap-1.cdp.cloudera.com:443curl -v https://mow-prod-ap-southeast-2-sigmadbus-dbus.s3.ap-southeast-2.amazonaws.com:443

Where, the -v option outputs the results in the terminal, which
        enables you to verify that the network port is open. For example, the following image shows
        that a successful connection was established after running the curl command for the
        Us-west-2 cloud region with the cloudera-dbus host name.  


noteThe public certificates offered with the Network Load Balancer and
        the Cloudera Observability S3 bucket web URL hosts can be verified with your Certified
        Authority (CA) truststore certificates. For maximum security, Cloudera recommends that you
        use your organization's private key infrastructure (PKI) and manage your own PKI and
        truststore certificates and certificate keys.
You can import a certificate from another truststore file to your truststore file with the
    keytool utility, by running the following command:
keytool -importkeystore -srckeystore cacerts -srcstorepass changeit -destkeystore truststore -deststorepass truststore_password 
Where,
truststore, is the destination truststore file name.  
truststore_password, is the password that opens the destination
            truststore file.



Parent topic: System requirements for your Workload Cluster