Logging in to Cloudera ObservabilityCloudera Docs
Logging in to Cloudera Observability
Learn how to access the Cloudera Observability web user interface to start viewing
        your diagnostic data for analysis.
Describes how to access Cloudera Observability and begin working with the Main and
            the Environment navigation panels.noteThere can be a delay from
                job completion to when the job is available in Cloudera Observability. Large jobs
                can take up to 10 minutes to display in Cloudera Observability.
Do the following:
For CDP Private Cloud:
Verify that Telemetry Publisher is enabled for Cloudera Observability on
                            your Workload clusters and that they are associated with Telemetry
                            Publisher.
If applicable, verify that your environment's data services are using
                            Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE) version 1.19 or above and/or Cloudera
                            Data Warehouse (CDW) version 1.6.3 or above. Starting with these
                            versions the collected diagnostic data is categorized and displayed
                            within their Data Service category in the Cloudera Observability web UI.
                        

For CDP Public Cloud:Verify that Enable Workload
                            Analytics was turned on when you registered your Data Hub
                        environment and when you installed your Data Engineering service. 
importantWhen you are not working in Cloudera Observability, Cloudera recommends that you explicitly log out by selecting
                your user name in the main navigation panel and clicking Log
                    Out.

In a supported web browser log in to the Cloudera Observability web UI by doing
                    the following:


In a supported browser, log into the Cloudera Data Platform.
The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing
                            page, select the Observability tile.


The Cloudera Observability web UI Landing page opens to the main navigation
                    panel.

From the main navigation panel, select Financial
                        Governance, which opens the Chargeback page.
                    When configured, by you, this page displays the total costs and the hourly CPU
                    and memory usage for all of your cost centers, including the unutilized resource
                    usage costs from the Uncategorised section. For more
                    information about the Financial Governance feature and how to configure your
                    cost centers and assign them to your resources, click the Related
                        Information link below.

From the main navigation panel, select Analytics.
The Cloudera Observability
Environments page opens.

Select an environment required for analysis.

tipTo filter and display only those
                        environment platforms or services of interest, from the
                            Environments list, select the environment's
                            Type.
The Environment navigation panel opens, which
                        hierarchically lists the environment and its services hosted on the selected
                        environment.


Depending on the environment selected, verify that the Cluster
                        Summary page is displayed for the environment's cluster required
                    for analysis. 
To display the Cluster
                        Summary page for a Data Lake, Database Catalog, Data Engineering,
                    and Data Hub environment type, do one of the following:
From the Environment panel, expand the service's category and depending
                            on the service, locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, the Data
                            Engineering's Virtual Cluster, or the Data Warehouse's Virtual Warehouse
                            that is required for analysis.
In the Data Services table, drill-down through the service links to
                            locate and select the Data Hub's cluster, the Data Engineering's Virtual
                            Cluster, or the Data Warehouse's Virtual Warehouse that is required for
                            analysis.


The Cluster Summary page, which is displayed as the
                        title in your browser tab, displays performance trends and metrics about the
                        processed jobs and queries and enables you to view historical trends for
                        analysis when you select a predefined or custom time period from the
                        Time-Range filter list.


From the cluster's ENGINES, the Data Engineering's Virtual Cluster, or the Data
                    Warehouse's Virtual Warehouse, select a workload engine of interest.
When an engine is selected, the name of the engine is displayed in the browser
                    tab and the page's chart widgets display information about the workload jobs run
                    by the selected engine, such as which jobs or queries have failed or are slow,
                    their processing time, missed SLAs (thresholds), user and pool metrics, and
                    outlier issues. 

In the workload engine's page, review its chart widgets and then select a chart
                    widget, such as Suboptimal. Select a link or bar and drill down further to view
                    more information, such as health checks, execution details, baselines, and
                    trends.
                    

tipBreadcrumbs are displayed at the top of
                        each page, which displays the name of your current location and its
                        preceding page levels. You can move between these levels by clicking on a
                        breadcrumb location.



Related informationAnalyzing your environment costs with Cloudera ObservabilityAbout the Cloudera Observability user interface hierarchy