Generating Telemetry Publisher access credentialsCloudera Docs
Generating Telemetry Publisher access credentials
Steps for generating access credentials that enable communication between your
        Workload clusters and Cloudera Observability.
Describes how to create the access and private keys for Cloudera Manager's
            Telemetry Publisher, which collects and sends your workload information to Cloudera Observability. You will be required to supply these values when you enable the
            Telemetry Publisher service on your Workload Cluster.noteOnly
                    Cloudera Observability administrators
                    (ObservabilityClusterAdmin formerly WXMClusterAdmin) can
                create Telemetry Publisher access credentials.

In a supported browser, log in to the Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) as the user
                    with administrative privileges.

The CDP Public Cloud web interface landing page opens.


From the Your Enterprise Data Cloud landing page, select
                    the Management Console tile.

The Management Console home page opens.


From the Management Console's navigation panel, scroll down, click your user
                    name, and then select Profile. 
Your Profile page opens.

Click Generate Access Key.
The Generate Access Key dialog box opens.

In the Generate Access Key dialog box, click Generate an old format
                        access key.
The Telemetry Publisher Access Key ID and
                        Private Key credentials are created and their
                    respective fields populated with the credential text.

Do one of the following: 

Manually save the access credentials:
Record the Access Key ID credential text and store it somewhere
                                safe. You will be required to supply this value when you enable the
                                Telemetry Publisher service on your Workload Cluster.
In a new text file, copy and paste the Private Key credential text
                                exactly as provided without trailing spaces and then name and save
                                the file somewhere safe. You will be required to supply this file
                                when you enable the Telemetry Publisher service on your Workload
                                Cluster.

Download the credentials file.
Click Download Credentials File.
Go to your Downloads directory.
Open the file in a text editor and record the Access Key ID
                                credential text and store it somewhere safe.
Remove the text containing the Access Key ID, starting from
                                    [default] and ending with
                                    cdp_private_key=.The credentials file
                                    should now only contain the Private Key credentials text,
                                    starting from -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY----- and
                                    ending with -----END PRIVATE KEY-----.
Save the file somewhere safe. You will be required to supply this
                                file when you enable the Telemetry Publisher service on your
                                Workload Cluster.




Related informationEnabling the Telemetry Publisher serviceCloudera Observability access rolesParent topic: Pre-tasks