Creating segments from filter definitionsCloudera Docs
Creating segments from filter definitions
Besides creating segments in the dataset detail view, Cloudera Data Visualization also lets you create segments from a filter definition
    of a visual.

See the following topics to create a new segment from a filter in a visual, then edit the
        filter to add another segment, and finally update an existing segment. 

Creating the first
            segment
Adding the second
            segment
Viewing the defined
            segments
Adding values to an
            existing segment



Creating the first segment
Follow these steps to create a new data segment, Mountain from a filter
          definition:

Start a new visual based on dataset Flight Delays, based on data previously
          imported into Data Visualization from a data file. See, Creating a visual.

Add originstate to the Filters shelf.






In the Filter for originstate window modal, select CO and
            WY, and click Apply.






Click the Save Down icon to the left of the
            Filters shelf.






From the menu, select Create New Segment.






In the Add Segment window modal, specify the following:


Under Segment Name, enter Mountain.
Under Segment Group, enter Geographic Region.
Under Filters, notice the new filter expression,
                [originstate] in ('CO', 'WY'). 
Leave Entity to Extract field empty.



Click Save.




The new segment definition appears in Segments section on the
            right navigation menu.





Adding the second segment
Let's edit the filter defined in the first segment and create a second segment.

On the Filters shelf, at the right of the
            originstate filter, click the Down icon to open
          the Filter Properties menu.

From the Filter Properties menu, select Clear
            values.






Click the Down icon to the right of the
            originstate filter to open the Filter Properties
          menu.

From the Filter Properties menu, select Select
            values.






In the Filter for originstate window modal, select
          WA.

Click Apply.






To define the next segment, select Create New Segment from the
            Save as Segment menu.






In the Add Segment  modal window, specify the following:


Under Segment Name, enter North West.
Under Segment Group, enter Geographic Region that we
              used earlier.
Under Filters, notice the new filter expression,
                [originstate] in ('WA'). 
Leave Entity to Extract field empty.



Click Save.






Viewing the defined segments

In the side navigation bar of the visual interface, click
            Segments.

Notice that the two segments (and the segment group) we just defined appear in the
              Segments menu.





Adding values to an existing segment
Let's add a new state, OR, to our existing segment North West.

Click inside the Filter shelf to open the Field Properties menu.

Click Clear values.

Click Select values.

Select OR in the Filter for originstate window
          modal.

Click Apply.






To add the new selection to an existing segment, do the following:


Click Filters.
In the menu, select Add to Segment from the Save
                as Segment menu. 
In the secondary menu, under Geographic Regions, select North
              West.




Notice that when the Edit Segment modal window appears, it shows
            the existing configuration for the segment North West. 
However, its Filters specification now includes Oregon:
              [originstate] in ('WA', 'OR'). 


Click Save to finish adding the specification to the
          segment.







To view how segments work in a visual, see Using Segments in Visuals


Related informationUsing segments in visualsCreating a visual