Configuration OverviewCloudera Docs
Configuration Overview
Learn how to configure SRM with the srm.properties configuration file. 
SRM configuration is managed through a single configuration file. The default location of the
      configuration file for .rpm based installs is
        /opt/streams-replication-manager/config. For ZIP or TAR based installations
      the default location is $SRM_CONF_DIR/srm.properties. The default name of the
      file is srm.properties.
Command line tools provided with SRM read configuration properties from the configuration
      file. All tools automatically collect configuration information from the default file. If
      required it is possible to store the configuration file at a different location. In this case
      however, you need to specify the configuration file and its location when using the tools.
      Specifying an alternate location for the file is achieved with the --config
      option which is supported by all SRM command line tools. 
The srm.properties file accepts all Kafka client properties available in the
      version of Kafka that you are using. Additionally, it supports a number of SRM specific
      configuration properties. For a comprehensive list of SRM specific properties, see
        Configuration Properties Reference. 
Configuration properties for SRM can be set on three different levels, which are the
      following: 
Top level: Top level or global configuration is achieved by adding the property
          on its own. For example:replication.factor=3
Cluster level: Cluster level configuration can be achieved by prepeding the
          configuration property with a cluster alias. For
          example:primary.replication.factor=3
Replication level: Replication level configuration can be achieved by prepeding
          the configuration property with the name of the replication. For
          example:primary->secondary.replication.factor=3

Minimum Configuration
At minimum the configuration file has to contain cluster aliases, cluster connection
        information, and at least one cluster->cluster replication that is enabled. 
Cluster aliases are specified with the clusters property. Aliases are
        arbitrary names defined by the user. They are used in other configuration properties as well
        as with the SRM command line tools to refer to the clusters added for replication. For
        example: #Kafka cluster aliases
clusters = primary, backup
Each cluster alias has to have connection information associated with it. Connection
        information is specified with the bootstrap.servers property. You add
        connection information by prepending the bootstrap.servers property with a
        cluster alias and adding the address of the Kafka broker as the value. When configuring
        connection information, add each cluster to a new line. If a cluster has multiple hosts, add
        them to the same line but delimit them with commas. For
        example:#Kafka broker addresses
primary.bootstrap.servers = primary-cluster1.vpc.example.com:9092, primary-cluster2.vpc.example.com:9092, ...
backup.bootstrap.servers = backup-cluster1.vpc.example.com:9092, backup-cluster1.vpc.example.com:9092, ...

Cluster replications can be set up and enabled as follows:
primary->backup.enabled = true
backup->primary.enabled = true

The default srm.properties shipped with SRM contains examples for cluster
        aliases, connection information, and cluster->cluster replications. In
        addition, it also contains a number of other pre-set properties. These properties however
        are not required for SRM to function, they are included to give users a basic example of how
        the configuration file can be set up. Cloudera recommends that you study the example
        configuration provided in Configuration Examples to find out more about how SRM
        should be set up for different replication scenarios.


Related informationConfiguration ExamplesConfiguration Properties Reference