Adding an external S3 bucket to your CDW environmentCloudera Docs
Adding an external S3 bucket to your CDW environment
If you try to access an external S3 bucket from the Hue web interface without adding
        it to the CDW environment, then Impala or Hive may display the “AccessDeniedException 403”
        exception. Make sure that your Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) environment has access to the
        S3 buckets that you want to access from Hue.
When you create a Virtual Warehouse in the CDW service, a
            cluster is created in your AWS account. This cluster has two buckets. One bucket is used
            for managed data and the other is used for external data. Access to these two buckets is
            controlled by AWS instance profiles.To add read/write access to external S3 buckets
                that reside in the same AWS account as the CDW service cluster or that are different
                from the account where the CDW service cluster resides, see the corresponding links
                in the Related information section.

Sign in to the CDP Management Console as an administrator.

Go to Data Warehouse service > Environments and click the More… menu.

Search and locate the environment in which you want to add the S3 bucket and
                    click the edit icon.
The Environment Details page is displayed.

Specify the name of the S3 bucket you want to configure access to in the
                        Add External S3 Bucket text box.
If the bucket belongs to another AWS account, then select the
                        Bucket belongs to different AWS account
                    option.

Select the access mode.
Read-only access is sufficient to import data in Hue.

Click Add Bucket to save the configuration.
A success message is displayed.

Click APPLY to update the CDW environment.

tipIf you configure read only access to an external S3 bucket,
                        there is no need to restart Virtual Warehouses. However, if you configure
                        read/write access to an external S3 bucket, you must restart Virtual
                        Warehouses by suspending them and starting them again.



Related informationAdding Cloudera Data Warehouse cluster access to external S3 buckets in the
              same AWS accountAdding Cloudera Data Warehouse cluster access to external S3 buckets in a
              different AWS accountAWS instance profilesParent topic: Accessing S3 bucket from Hue in CDW without RAZ