Accessing ADLS Gen2 containers from Hue in CDW with RAZCloudera Docs
Accessing ADLS Gen2 containers from Hue in CDW with RAZ
Hue offers you the capability to browse ADLS Gen2 containers, upload files to ADLS Gen2
        containers, and create tables by importing files from ABFS. With Ranger Authorization (RAZ),
        you can grant fine-grained access to per-user home directories.
If you have enabled RAZ while registering your AWS
            environment with CDP, then Hue uses RAZ as the default mechanism for enabling the ABFS
            File Browser. Before you can enable the ABFS File Browser in Hue, you must complete the
            following prerequisites:

Follow the instructions listed in Introduction to RAZ on Azure
                        environments to register an Azure environment with the
                        Enable Ranger authorization for ADLS Gen2 option
                    enabled. You can use the CDP web interface or the CDP CLI to complete this
                    task.

noteYou must enable RAZ while registering your
                        environment with CDP.


Log in to the CDP Management Console as a DWAdmin or DWUser and go to the
                    Cloudera Data Warehouse service.

Click  > Open Ranger on your Database Catalog.

Create the following Ranger policies:


Hadoop SQL policy (all - database,
                                table, column, all - url). 
You must grant permissions to individual users or groups in these
                            Ranger policies. To grant permissions to all users, you can specify
                                {USER} in the
                                Permission section.


ABFS (cm_ADLS) policy (Default: User
                                Home)
You must grant permissions to the following users in the
                                Permissions section for the user home
                            directory: {USER}.


ABFS (cm_ADLS) policy (Default:
                                user)
You must grant permissions to the following users in the
                                Permissions section for the root directory
                                (/user/): hive,
                                impala.



You must also grant appropriate permissions to the users in CDP User Management
                    Service (UMS). For example, EnvironmentUser.

Specify the storage account name in the Storage Account
                    field and the directory path of the container and its sub-directories in the
                        Storage Account Container field of the
                        cm_ADLS Ranger policy.


Enabling the ABFS File Browser for Hue in CDW with RAZThe ABFS File Browser in Hue is enabled by default. However, you must set the path to         your ADLS Gen2 container in the hue-safety-valve field to avoid a 403 error when you click         on the ABFS File Browser.Parent topic: Using Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with Hue