Accessing and using Hue in Cloudera Data WarehouseCloudera Docs
Accessing and using Hue in Cloudera Data Warehouse
Get started using Hue by analyzing and visualizing your data with Impala and Hive SQL
        query engines.

To try Hue without having an account, try running sample queries on http://demo.gethue.com/.


Hue uses your LDAP credentials that you have configured for the CDP cluster.


Log into the CDP web interface and navigate to the Data Warehouse
                    service.

In the Data Warehouse service, navigate to the Overview
                    page.

noteYou can also launch Hue from the Virtual Warehouse
                        page using the same steps.


To run Impala queries:


On the Overview page under Virtual
                                Warehouses, click on the Hue
                            button.
The query editor is displayed:







Click a database to view the tables it contains.
When you click a database, it sets it as the target of your query in
                            the main query editor panel.


Type a query in the editor panel and click the run icon  to run the query.

noteUse the Impala language reference to get information about syntax
                                in addition to the SQL auto-complete feature that is built in. To
                                view the language reference, click the book icon  to the right of
                                the query editor panel.




To run Hive queries:


On the Overview page under Virtual
                                Warehouses, click on the Hue
                            button.
The Hive query editor is displayed:







Click a database to view the tables it contains.
When you click a database, it sets it as the target of your query in
                            the main query editor panel.


Type a query in the editor panel and click the run icon  to run the query.

noteUse the Hive language reference to get information about syntax in
                                addition to the SQL auto-complete feature that is built in. To view
                                the language reference, click the book icon  to the right of the
                                query editor panel.





Parent topic: About using Hue