Accessing S3 bucket from Hue in CDW with RAZCloudera Docs
Accessing S3 bucket from Hue in CDW with RAZ
Hue offers you the capability to browse S3 buckets, upload files to S3, and create
        tables by importing files from S3. With Ranger Authorization (RAZ), you can grant
        fine-grained access to per-user home directories.
If you have enabled RAZ while registering your AWS
            environment with CDP, then Hue uses RAZ as the default mechanism for enabling the S3
            File Browser. Before you can enable the S3 File Browser in Hue, you must complete the
            following prerequisites:

Follow the instructions listed in Introduction to RAZ on AWS
                        environments to register an AWS environment with the
                        Enable Ranger authorization for AWS S3 option
                    enabled. You can use the CDP web interface or the CDP CLI to complete this
                    task.

noteYou must enable RAZ while registering your
                        environment with CDP.


Log in to the CDP Management Console as a DWAdmin or DWUser and go to the
                    Cloudera Data Warehouse service.

Click  > Open Ranger on your Database Catalog.

Create the following Ranger policies:


Hadoop SQL policy (all - database,
                                table, column, all - url). 
You must grant permissions to individual users or groups in these
                            Ranger policies. To grant permissions to all users, you can specify
                                {USER} in the
                                Permission section.


S3 (cm_S3) policy (Default: User
                                Home)
You must grant permissions to the following users in the
                                Permissions section for the user home
                            directory (/user/{USER}):
                                {USER}.
Specify the bucket name in the S3 Bucket field
                            and the directory path in the Path field of the
                                cm_S3 Ranger policy.


S3 (cm_S3) policy (Default:
                                user)
You must grant permissions to the following users in the
                                Permissions section for the root directory
                                (/user/): hive,
                                impala.



You must also grant appropriate permissions to the users in CDP User Management
                    Service (UMS). For example, EnvironmentUser.


Enabling the S3 File Browser for Hue in CDW with RAZThe S3 File Browser in Hue is enabled by default. However, you must set the path to         your S3 directory in the hue-safety-valve field to avoid a 403 error when you click on the         S3 File Browser.Parent topic: Using Amazon S3 with Hue