Creating tables by importing CSV files from ABFSCloudera Docs
Creating tables by importing CSV files from ABFS
You can create tables in Hue by importing CSV files stored in ABFS. Hue automatically
        detects the schema and the column types, thus helping you to create tables without using the
        CREATE TABLE syntax. 

The
                maximum file size supported is three gigabytes.
            
(Non-RAZ deployment) Only Hue Superusers can access ADLS Gen2 containers and import
                files to create tables. To create tables by importing files from ADLS, you must
                assign and authorize use of a specific bucket on ADLS Gen2 containers for your
                environment. The bucket then appears like a home directory on the Hue web
                interface.


In the CDW service Overview page, select the Virtual
                    Warehouse in which you want to create the table, click the options menu in the
                    upper right corner and click Open Hue.

From the left assist panel, click on Importer.

On the Importer screen, click .. at the end of the
                        Path field:





Choose a file pop-up is displayed.

(Non-RAZ deployment) Type abfs://[***CONTAINER-NAME***] in the
                    address text box and press enter.
The ABFS containers created under the Azure storage account are
                    displayed.
You can narrow down the list of results using the search option. 
If the file is present on your computer, then you can upload it to ABFS by
                    clicking Upload a file.

Select the CSV file that you want to import into Hue.
Hue displays the preview of the table along with the format.
Hue automatically detects the field separator, record separator, and the quote
                    character from the CSV file. If you want to override a specific setting, then
                    you can change it by selecting a different value from the drop-down menu.
                

Click Next.
On this page, you can set the table destination, partitions, and change the
                    column data types.

Verify the settings and click Submit to create the
                    table.
The CREATE TABLE query is triggered.
Hue displays the logs and opens the Table Browser from
                    which you can view the newly created table when the operation completes
                    successfully.


Parent topic: Using Azure Data Lake Storage Gen2 with Hue