Creating tables by importing CSV files from AWS S3 in Cloudera Data WarehouseCloudera Docs
Creating tables by importing CSV files from AWS S3 in Cloudera Data Warehouse
You can create tables in Hue by importing CSV files stored in S3 buckets. Hue
        automatically detects the schema and the column types, thus helping you to create tables
        without using the CREATE TABLE syntax.

The maximum file size supported is three gigabytes.
(Non-RAZ deployment) Only Hue Superusers can access S3 buckets and import files to
                create tables. To create tables by importing files from S3, you must assign and
                authorize use of a specific bucket on S3 bucket for your environment. The bucket
                then appears like a home directory on the Hue web interface.


Sign in to the Cloudera Data Warehouse service.

On the Overview page, select the Virtual Warehouse in
                    which you want to create the table and click on Hue.

From the left assist panel, click on Importer. 

On the Importer screen, click .. at the end of the
                        Path field:





Choose a file pop-up is displayed.

(Non-RAZ deployment) Type s3a:// in the address text box
                    and press enter.
The S3 buckets associated with the CDW environment are displayed. You can
                    narrow down the list of results using the search option.





If the file is present on your computer, then you can upload it to S3 by
                    clicking Upload a file. To do this, you must have enabled
                    read/write access to the S3 bucket from the CDW environment.

Select the CSV file that you want to import into Hue.
Hue displays the preview of the table along with the format:





Hue automatically detects the field separator, record separator, and the quote
                    character from the CSV file. If you want to override a specific setting, then
                    you can change it by selecting a different value from the drop-down menu. 

Click Next.
On this page, you can set the table destination, partitions, and change the
                    column data types.






Verify the settings and click Submit to create the
                    table.
The CREATE TABLE query is triggered:


Hue displays the logs and opens the Table Browser from
                    which you can view the newly created table when the operation completes
                    successfully.


Parent topic: Using Amazon S3 with Hue