CDP Public Cloud reference network architecture for AzureCloudera Docs
CDP Public Cloud reference network architecture for Azure
This topic includes a conceptual overview of the CDP Public Cloud network architecture
  for Azure, its use cases, and personas who should be using it.
Overview
CDP Public Cloud allows customers to set up cloud Data Lakes and compute workloads
    in their cloud accounts on AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud. It maps a cloud account to a concept
    called the environment into which all CDP workloads, including Data Hubs (compute
    workload clusters)and data services (such as Cloudera Data Engineering (CDE), Cloudera
    Data Warehouse (CDW), Cloudera Machine Learning (CML), Cloudera Operational Database (COD),
    Cloudera DataFlow (CDF)) are launched. For these Data Lakes, Data Hubs, and data services to
    function correctly, several elements of the cloud architecture need to be configured
    appropriately: access permissions, networking setup, cloud storage and so on. Broadly, these
    elements can be configured in one of two ways: 

CDP can set up these elements for the customerUsually, this
      model helps to set up a working environment quickly and try out CDP. However, many enterprise
      customers prefer or even mandate specific configurations of a cloud environment for Infosec or
      compliance reasons. Setting up elements such as networking and cloud storage requires prior
      approvals and they would generally not prefer, or even actively prevent, a third party vendor
      like Cloudera to set up these elements automatically.
CDP can work with pre-created elements provided by the customerIn this model, the flow for creating the cloud Data Lakes accepts pre-created configurations
      of the cloud environment and launches workloads within those boundaries. This model is clearly
      more aligned with enterprise requirements. However, it brings with it the risk that the
      configuration might not necessarily play well with CDP requirements. As a result, customers
      might face issues launching CDP workloads and the turnaround time to get to a working
      environment might be much longer and involve many tedious interactions between Cloudera and
      the customer cloud teams.

From our experience in working with several enterprise customers, the most
    complicated element of the cloud environment setup is the cloud network configuration. The
    purpose of this document is to clearly articulate the networking requirements needed for setting
    up a functional CDP Public Cloud environment into which the Data Lakes and compute workloads of
    different types can be launched. It attempts to establish the different points of access to
    these workloads and establishes how the given architecture helps to accomplish this access.
Along with this document, you can use the cloudera-deploy tool to
    automatically set up a model of this reference architecture, which can then be reviewed for
    security and compliance purposes.
note
Currently this document only covers network architecture required for registering a
     CDP environment (with a Data Lake and FreeIPA) and deploying CDW, and CML in the environment.
     It does not currently cover Data Hubs and the remaining data services (CDE, CDF, and COD). 


Use cases
CDP Public Cloud allows customers to process data in the cloud storage under a
    secure and governed Data Lake using different types of compute workloads that are provisioned
    via Data Hub or data services. Typically the lifecycle of these workloads is as follows:

A CDP environment is set up by a CDP admin using their cloud account. This sets up
     a cloud Data Lake cluster and FreeIPA cluster with security and governance services and an
     identity provider for this environment. The CDP admin may need to work with a cloud
     administrator to create all the cloud provider resources (including networking resources) that
     are required by CDP.
Then one or more Data Hubs and data services can be launched, linked to the Data
     Lake. Each of these Data Hubs and data services typically serves a specific purpose such as
     data ingestion, analytics, machine learning and so on.
These Data Hubs and data services are accessed by data consumers such as data
     engineers, analysts or scientists. This is the core purpose of using CDP on the public
     cloud.
These compute workload clusters and data services can be long-running or
     ephemeral, depending on the customer needs.

There are two types of CDP users who interact with the product for different
    purposes:

CDP admins - These persons are usually concerned with the launch and
     maintenance of the cloud environment, and the Data Lake, FreeIPA, Data Hubs, and data services
     running inside the environment. They use a Management Console running in the Cloudera AWS
     account to perform these operations of managing the environment.
Data consumers - These are the data scientists, data analysts, and data
     engineers who use the Data Hubs and data services to process data. They mostly interact
     directly with the compute workloads (Data Hubs and data services) running in their cloud
     account. They could access these either from their corporate networks (typically through a VPN)
     or other cloud networks their corporate owns.

These two types of users and their interaction with CDP are represented in the
    following diagram:





Related informationcloudera-deploy tool