Architecture diagramsCloudera Docs
Architecture diagrams
This topic includes diagrams illustrating the various elements of the network
  architecture in the customer’s cloud account into which CDP environments with Data Lakes, Data
  Hubs, and data services will be launched. 
Cloudera recommends that customers configure their cloud networks as described in this chapter
   and illustrated in the following diagrams. This will help onboarding Data Lakes, Data Hubs, and
   data services smoothly. The following diagram illustrates the configuration for a fully private
   network that can be configured by the customer. This configuration can be provided by the CDP
   admins when they are setting up CDP environments and workloads which will get launched into this
   configuration. 



Note the following points about this architecture:

The configuration is a fully private network configuration - that is, the
    workloads are launched on nodes that do not have public IP addresses.
Workloads connect to the CDP Control Plane over a fixed IP and port range.
For users to be able to connect from the customer on-prem network to the CDP
    workloads in the private subnet, some network connectivity setup is required. In this case, a
    customer's network peered to Azure VNet via Azure VPN gateway is shown.

Some of the CDP data services are based on Azure AKS clusters. Azure’s AKS manages
   the Kubernetes control plane nodes while the worker nodes that make up the CDP workload cluster
   get provisioned in the customer’s VPC. The AKS control plane has an API endpoint for
   administrative purposes which is commonly referred to as API server address. The data service
   itself is accessible through a service endpoint ELB.
This is illustrated in the following diagram:



As can be seen in the above diagram, CDP workloads have dependencies on some Azure
   cloud services such as ADLS, Azure Postgres and so on. A full list of these services, described
   in the context of each workload is specified in Azure outbound network access
   destinations.
In this example of a fully private deployment with an existing network of your own
      configuration, you must configure your own egress connectivity through a NAT gateway setup or user-defined routing. For more information see
        VNet and subnets and Azure Load Balancers in Data Lakes and Data
        Hubs.
In the chapters that follow, we detail the elements of this architecture, including
   specifying the configuration and options in each of the components.

Related informationAzure outbound network access destinationsParent topic: Network architecture