Taxonomy of network architecturesCloudera Docs
Taxonomy of network architectures
This topic provides a high-level overview of each type of network architecture that CDP
  supports. 
At a high level, there are several types of network architectures that CDP supports.
   As can be expected, each type brings a unique trade-off among various aspects, such as ease of
   setup, security provided, workloads supported, and so on. This section only provides a high level
   overview of each type. The characteristics of each type are explained under appropriate sections
   in the rest of the document. The users must review the advantages and disadvantages of each of
   these taxonomies in detail before making a choice suitable to their needs.


Name
Description
Trade-offs



Publicly accessible networks
Deploys customer workloads to hosts with public IP addresses. Security groups
       must be used to restrict access only to corporate networks as needed.
Easy to set up for POCs. Low security levels.


Semi-private networks
Deploys customer workloads to private subnets, but exposes services to which
       data consumers need access over a load balancer with a public IP address. Security groups or
       allow-lists (of IP addresses or ranges) on load balancers must be used to restrict access to
       these public services only to corporate networks as needed.
This option is fairly easy to set up too, but it may not solve all the use
       cases of access (in semi private networks). The surface of exposure is reduced, and it
       is reasonably secure.


Fully private networks
Deploys customer workloads to private subnets, and the services to which data
       consumers need access are only on private IPs. Requires connectivity to corporate networks to
       be provided using solutions like VPN gateways, and so on.
Complex to set up depending on prior experience of establishing such
       connectivity, primarily due to the way the customer has to solve the corporate network
       peering problem. But it is very secure.


Fully private outbound restricted networks
This is the same as fully private networks; Except, in addition,
       Cloudera provides a mechanism for users to configure an outbound proxy or firewall to monitor
       or restrict the communication outside their networks.
Most complex to set up, mainly considering the varied needs that data
       consumers would have to connect outside the VNet on an evolving basis. It is also the most
       secure for an enterprise.



Management Console to customer cloud networkThis topic explains the possible ways in which the CDP Control Plane can communicate   with the compute infrastructure in the customer network, in the context of the Management Console. Customer on-prem network to cloud networkAfter Data Hubs and data services are launched in the customer’s cloud network, data   consumers such as data engineers, data scientists, and data analysts access services running in   these CDP data services. Sometimes, CDP admins who set up and operate these clusters might need   this access to diagnose any issues the clusters face.