Customer on-prem network to cloud networkCloudera Docs
Customer on-prem network to cloud network
After Data Hubs and data services are launched in the customer’s cloud network, data
  consumers such as data engineers, data scientists, and data analysts access services running in
  these CDP data services. Sometimes, CDP admins who set up and operate these clusters might need
  this access to diagnose any issues the clusters face.
Examples of these include:

Web UIs such as:
Hue: For running SQL queries in Hive tables
CML Workspaces: For accessing Cloudera Machine Learning projects, models,
      notebooks, and so on
Cloudera Manager: For Data Hubs and Data Lakes
Atlas and Ranger: For metadata, governance, and security in the Data
      Lake

JDBC endpoints: Customers can connect tools such as Tableau using a JDBC URL
    pointing to the Hive server.
SSH access: Data engineers might log in to nodes on the compute workload
    clusters and data services to run data processing jobs using YARN, Spark, or other data pipeline
    tools.
Kube API access: CDP data services that run on AKS (such as Cloudera Data
    Warehouse and Cloudera Machine Learning) also provide admin access to Kubernetes for purposes of
    diagnosing issues.
API access: Customers can use APIs for accessing many of the services
    exposed via the web UIs for purposes of automation and integration with other tools,
    applications, or other workloads they have. For example, CML exposes the CML API v2 to work with
    Cloudera Machine Learning projects and other entities. See CML API v2.

These services are accessed by these consumers from within a corporate network inside
   a VPN. These services typically have endpoints that have a DNS name, the format of which is
   described more completely in the DNS section of this reference architecture documentation. These
   DNS names resolve to IP addresses assigned to the nodes, or load balancers fronting the ingest
   controllers of Kubernetes clusters. Note that these IP addresses are usually private IPs;
   Therefore, in order to be able to connect to these IPs from the on-premise network within a VPN,
   some special connectivity setup would be needed, typically accomplished using technologies like
   VPN peering, DirectConnect, transit gateways, and so on. While there are many options possible
   here, this document describes one concrete option of achieving this connectivity.

Related informationCML API v2Parent topic: Taxonomy of network architectures