Component descriptionCloudera Docs
Component description
This section includes an overview of the VNet, subnets, gateways and route tables, and
  security groups required for CDP Public Cloud for Azure.


VNetAn Azure Virtual Network (VNet) is needed for deploying CDP workloads into the   customer’s cloud account. VNet is similar to a traditional network that you would operate in your   own data center, but brings with it additional benefits of Azure's infrastructure such as scale,   availability, and isolation.SubnetsA subnet is a partition of the virtual network in which CDP workloads are launched. Gateways and route tablesThis topic covers recommended gateway and route table configurations for CDP Public   Cloud for Azure.Private endpointsCDP workloads can be configured to access the Azure resources over a private IP (which   is called a private endpoint) or over a public IP (which is called a service    endpoint). Security groupsDuring the specification of a VNet to CDP, the CDP admin specifies security groups that   will be associated with all the CDP workloads launched within that VNet. These security groups   will be used in allowing the incoming traffic to the hosts.Security groups for Data LakesDuring the specification of a VNet to CDP, the CDP admin can either let CDP create the   required security groups, taking a list of IP address CIDRs as input; or create them in Azure and   then provide them to CDP.Additional rules for AKS-based workloadsAt the time of enabling a CDP data service, the CDP admin can specify a list of CIDR   ranges that will be used in allowing the incoming traffic to the workload Load Balancer. Outbound connectivity requirementsOutbound traffic from the worker nodes is unrestricted and is targeted at other Azure   services and CDP services. The comprehensive list of services that get accessed from a CDP   environment can be found in Azure outbound network access destinations.Domain names for the endpointsThe previous sections dealt with how connectivity is established to the workload   infrastructure. This section deals with “addressability”. DNSAzure-provided DNS is recommended for the VNet. This is required to enable private AKS   clusters and private access to Postgres databases among others, as described in Private    endpoints above.Parent topic: Network architecture