June 26, 2020Cloudera Docs
June 26, 2020
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse service on CDP Public Cloud introduces the following new features and
    improvements:
Query isolation for scan-heavy, data-intensive queries in Hive LLAP Virtual Warehouses
Hive Virtual Warehouses base auto-scaling on the total scan size of the query. HiveServer,
       which receives all incoming queries, has a query planner component. When the HiveServer query
     planner receives queries, it examines the total scan size of each query. That is, it looks at
     the number of bytes read from the file system required to execute the query. If the
       Query Isolation feature has been enabled for a Virtual Warehouse and a query scans
       more data than the threshold set in the
       hive.query.isolation.scan.size.threshold parameter, the planner runs the
       query in isolation. This means that an isolated standalone executor group is spawned to run
       the data-intensive query. For more details, see Hive query isolation for scan-heavy, data-intensive
         queries.

Overlay network support for AWS environments
An overlay network is a software-defined layer of network abstraction that is used to run
       multiple separate, discrete virtualized network layers over the AWS VPC network. In the case
       of the CDW service, a custom CNI (Container Network Interface) plugin is used to enable the
       overlay network. It creates two network spaces:

A node network space, which derives per-node IP addresses from the VPC.
A Kubernetes pod network space, which derives per-pod IP addresses from the CNI plugin's own network space.

The overlay network is bridged into the node network. As a result, one IP address is
         required per node instead of one IP address needed per pod. Consequently, there are 
         more available IP addresses and you can use the CDW service efficiently, auto-scaling
         Virtual Warehouses as needed to meet the demands of your workloads. For more information,
         see Use overlay networks for AWS environments in Cloudera Data
           Warehouse service and Enable overlay networks in AWS environments.


Parent topic: Older releases