June 22, 2022Cloudera Docs
June 22, 2022
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud introduces
  these changes.
Apache Iceberg GA in CDW
Apache Iceberg is now generally available (GA) in key data services on CDP, including Cloudera
    Data Warehouse. Iceberg integration with Cloudera Data Platform (CDP) enhances the Lakehouse
    architecture by extending multifunction analytics to petabyte scale for multi-cloud and hybrid
    use-cases. From Impala, you use Apache Iceberg features in CDW, which include time
    travel, create table as select, and schema and partition evolution. To access these features,
    create a new Virtual Warehouse or upgrade an existing one.

Cross account role permissions policy
For security reasons, if you do not want to provide PutRolePolicy permission in your cross
    account role, which would be used later to add an inline policy to the Node instance role, you
    can attach a managed policy ARN to a node role. This managed
    policy provides cross account role permissions. To access this feature, create a new
    NodeInstanceRole manually, and provide the ARN during activation of the environment from
    CDW.

Zipping unnest on arrays from Views
As part of this release, you can use zipping unnest functionality on arrays from Views. Before
    this release, this zipping functionality worked for arrays only in Tables but did not support
    Views as a source. For more information about using this zipping unnest functionality, see Zipping unnest on arrays from Views.

Updates to the Hive and Impala language reference manuals in Hue
Hive and Impala language reference manuals that are built into the Hue web interface have been
    updated to include the latest syntax and user-defined functions (UDF). Help on Iceberg concepts
    and syntax is available for Impala. Improvements have also been made to the query autocomplete
    predictions and syntax checker to support these changes.


Parent topic: Older releases