August 4, 2022Cloudera Docs
August 4, 2022
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud introduces
  these changes.
Azure AKS 1.22 provisioning
In this release 1.4.2-b118 (released August 4, 2022), when you activate an environment, CDW
        automatically provisions AKS 1.22. 
Do not upgrade your AKS cluster to 1.22 in this release using the Azure CLI. Doing
        so can cause the cluster to become unusable and can cause downtime. For more information
        about upgrading, see Upgrading an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster for
          CDW.

Azure AKS managed identity support
You can now specify a user-assigned, managed identity for the AKS cluster when you activate the Azure environment.

Support for fine-grained access using minimum permissions in Azure environments
You can configure minimum permissions to govern access
       control between CDW, Azure resources, and the Azure storage account.

Azure Kubernetes Service deployment configuration options
Changes in configuration properties simplify
        configuring a DNS zone for AKS.

Cluster subdomain definition improvement 
In release version 1.4.2-b118 (released August 4, 2022), if you have the
        CDW_CUSTOM_CLUSTER_ID entitlement, you can define a cluster subdomain to retain your JDBC
          URLs. When you activate an environment, define your old subdomain using the following
            format: env-xxx.dwDefining the old subdomain in this way retains your old Virtual Warehouse names in the cluster.
        During environment activation, your old URLS continue to work, including JDBC URLS, Hive and
        Impala Virtual Warehouse URLS, Grafana URLS, and other URLS. 
The new way of defining your old subdomain replaces the behavior in effect for Versions
        2021.0.1.-b10 (released August 27, 2021) through 1.4.1-b86 (released June, 22, 2022). For
        information about the old way of defining a cluster domain, and the JDBC URL changes you had
        to made, see the August 27, 2021 release notes.

Simplification of Azure activation UI from CDW
Azure documentation for Data Warehouse has been updated to reflect improvements in the
          UI:
Creating and registering the Azure
            environment
Configuring a custom private DNS Zone
Enabling kubenet networking
Activating private AKS
Custom tags


Apache Iceberg GA in CDW
The following new features are generally available (GA) in Iceberg V1 in CDW:
Iceberg table rollback from Hive
From Hive, create an Iceberg table with a metadata
              location
Expire snapshots from Hive
 Impala BI features were released on a GA basis already.

Impala enhancements
This release of Cloudera Data Warehouse includes the following new Impala features:

Printing query results in vertical format Impala-shell now includes a new command
            option '-E' or '--vertical' to support printing of query results in vertical
              format.
Resolving ORC columns by names Before this release, Impala resolved ORC columns by
            index. In this release, a query option ORC_SCHEMA_RESOLUTION is added
            to support resolving ORC columns by names.
Retrieving the data file name Impala now supports including a virtual column in a
            standard SELECT statement select INPUT__FILE__NAME from <tablename>
            to retrieve the name of the data file that stores
            the actual row in a table.
Consolidating the ranger audit logs for the same table Impala now consolidates the
            Ranger audit log entries of column accesses granted by the same policy for columns in
            the same table, after all the requests for accessing an object are processed.
BYTES function support Impala now supports the BYTES() function. This function
            returns the number of bytes contained in a byte string. 
Configurable socket timeout for http transportImpala supports configuring socket
            timeout using the new impala-shell config option
--http_socket_timeout_s. When you set a reasonable timeout, an
            impala-shell client can retry in case of connection issues.
UTF-8 mode support Some Impala STRING types now support UTF-8 aware behavior to ensure
            consistent results for non-ASCII characters in the string in both Hive and Impala.
          



Parent topic: Older releases