October 29, 2021Cloudera Docs
October 29, 2021
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud introduces
  these changes.
Hive compaction observability
An alert notification  about compaction status, issues, and suggested actions appear in the overview of your
    Database Catalog, which leads to an informative message about the issue. The following list
    describes a few of more than 25 notifications:
Oldest initiated compaction passed threshold
Large number of compaction failures
More than one host is initiating compaction

Create an environment in this release to pick up this feature. For more information about
    compaction observability, see Compaction Observability.

Choosing a CDW version for a Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse
When creating a Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse, you can choose the latest version of
    CDW or an earlier version. Version mapping lists the CDW versions from 2021.0.0-b33
    released on August 9, 2021 to the latest release. You can ensure backward compatibility for your
    scripts, for example, by running your jobs on the same version of CDW. The ability to choose a
    version of Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse is available under entitlement
    CDW_VERSIONED_DEPLOY. For more information about this capability, see Adding a new Virtual Warehouse.

AWS EKS Kubernetes version upgrade
The CDW application uses Kubernetes (K8S) clusters to deploy and manage Hive and Impala in the cloud. Kubernetes versions are updated every 3 months on average. When the version is updated, minor versions are deprecated. Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) is updating to Kubernetes version 1.20 and is ending support for version 1.17. AWS environments you activate using this release of Cloudera Data Warehouse, and later, will use
    version 1.20. To avoid compatibility issues between CDW and AWS resources, you must update the
    version of Kubernetes that supports your existing CDW clusters to version 1.20.importantCheck to make sure your AWS environment has been migrated from Helm 2 to Helm 3 before you begin upgrading the Kubernetes version.If a MIGRATE icon appears in the upper right corner of the environment tile, your AWS environment has not been migrated from Helm 2 to Helm 3. Update the Helm package manager for your environment before you attempt to upgrade its Kubernetes version.
For information about upgrading the AWS EKS Kubernetes version, see Upgrade CDW for EKS upgrade.

Hue supports Hive Hybrid Procedural SQL in CDW
You can run Hive Hybrid Procedural SQL (HPL/SQL) using the Hue query editor in CDW. For more
    information, see How to run a stored procedure from Hue in Cloudera Data
     Warehouse.


Parent topic: Older releases