May 3, 2021Cloudera Docs
May 3, 2021
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud
    introduces these changes.
CDE Airflow integration to schedule ETL jobs for Hive Virtual Warehouses
In this release, CDE Airflow, based on Apache Airflow, which enables you to configure,
        schedule, and monitor workflows, can now be used to schedule ETL jobs that target Hive
        Virtual Warehouses running in CDW. For more information, see CDE Airflow ETL workloads in Hive Virtual
          Warehouses.

AWS environments updates

Helm 2 to Helm 3 migration
Helm is a package manager for the Kubernetes platform. CDW, which runs on Kubernetes,
            has migrated to Helm version 3 to take advantage of the improved security and upgrading
            capabilities offered by Helm 3. Any AWS environments that were created prior to this
            platform migration still run on Helm version 2. Although you can continue to use the
            Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses running on AWS environments that use Helm 2,
            there are significant limitations. Cloudera recommends that you migrate your AWS
            environments to Helm 3 as soon as you can. 
AWS EKS Kubernetes version upgrade

The CDW application uses Kubernetes (K8S) clusters to deploy and manage Hive, Impala,
          and Real-time Event Store Analytics (Druid) in the cloud. Kubernetes versions are updated
          every 3 months on average. When the version is updated, minor versions are deprecated. 
          Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) is updating to Kubernetes version 1.16 and is
          ending support for version 1.15 on May 2, 2021. To avoid compatibility issues between CDW
          and AWS resources, the version of Kubernetes that supports your CDW clusters must be
          updated.
importantCheck to make sure your AWS environment has been migrated from Helm
          2 to Helm 3 before you begin upgrading the Kubernetes version.
For more information about upgrading AWS environments for AWS EKS Kubernetes cluster
            updates, see Upgrade CDW for EKS Kubernetes version upgrade.



Azure environments

Ability to set scratch space limit for spilling Impala queries on Azure
            environments
Memory-intensive SQL operations need temporary disk space when Impala is close to
            exceeding its memory limit on a particular host. You can configure the scratch space
            between 300 GiB and 16 TiB per node while creating an Impala Virtual Warehouse in the
            Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service. For details, see Setting scratch space limit for spilling Impala queries
              in Azure environments.



Parent topic: Older releases