November 3, 2020Cloudera Docs
November 3, 2020
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud
    introduces the new features and improvements that are described in this topic.
Impala Virtual Warehouse improvements
The following improvements to Impala Virtual Warehouses have been added in this release:

High availability improvements, including fault-tolerance and multi-threading
         improvements.
Full support for reading tables based on the ORC file format. This improves collaboration
         across the data lifecycle. Now Hive and Impala Virtual Warehouses can use the same data
         format and the SQL engine can be selected to optimize the workload without restrictions tied
         to the file format.

Ability to stop, start, and suspend Impala Virtual Warehouses:
Figure 1. Starting an Impala Virtual Warehouse


Figure 2. Stopping an Impala Virtual Warehouse


Figure 3. Suspending an Impala Virtual Warehouse





Hive Virtual Warehouse improvements

Increased stability for Hive ACID and Compaction.
Performance improvements:
         
For short-running ad-hoc queries by decreasing task startup latency.
For late projections by delay joins.
For increased optimization of 'shared work.'




Improved security with machine user implementation
When you activate a new environment in Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW), a machine user is
        created in the CDP User Management System (UMS) and is synchronized with the FreeIPA
        Management System (FMS). The FreeIPA machine user is used by most of the services such as
        Hue, Impala, VizApp, etc. instead of the FreeIPA LDAP admin user to communicate with the
        services within the Data Lake (for example, Ranger) that is associated with the CDP
        environment. As a security measure, Cloudera recommends upgrading the CDW environment,
        Database Catalogs, and the Virtual Warehouses to the latest CDW release.
To upgrade the CDW environment, contact Cloudera Support.
To upgrade the Database Catalog and the Virtual Warehouse, see Upgrading Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses in
          Cloudera Data Warehouse Public Cloud.
noteBefore you upgrade all the Database Catalogs and Virtual Warehouses at the same time,
        upgrade any one Database Catalog or Virtual Warehouse and let the upgrade process complete.
        For example, if you have 2 Database Catalogs and 3 Virtual Warehouses in your CDW
        environment, then complete upgrading any one of the five components. After one of the
        components has successfully upgraded, you can upgrade the other four in parallel.
When you delete a CDW environment, the machine user is deleted from the UMS and the
        FMS.

Azure environments

Executor nodes for Virtual Warehouses can now be scaled down to zero nodes, thereby using
          zero Azure resources for idle workloads, saving costs.



Parent topic: Older releases