April 27, 2022Cloudera Docs
April 27, 2022
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud introduces
  these changes.
Metering fix
In this release, an important fix related to Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) metering has been
        added. This fix accurately communicates the status of your Virtual Warehouses to the
        Cloudera control plane, necessary for proper functioning of CDW. To include this fix,
        upgrade your Virtual Warehouses. Cloudera recommends performing this upgrade as soon as
        possible.

Unified Analytics
This is the GA release of Unified Analytics that brings SQL equivalency without syntax
        changes to CDW SQL engines. Unified Analytics brings significant optimization equivalency to
        these engines, unifying common techniques such as subquery processing, join ordering, and
        materialized views. Unified Analytics is available as a CDW Kubernetes service in AWS. Unified Analytics documentation includes features,
        limitations, and how to use Unified Analytics. To take advantage of
        this feature, create a new Impala Virtual Warehouse and enable the Unified Analytics option,
        or simply create a new Hive Virtual Warehouse. For more information, see this community blog. 
Ability to enable a private CDW environment in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
You can now activate CDW clusters in private mode which enables you to create all cloud
        resources without the need of public IP addresses. For more information, see Enabling a private CDW environment in Azure Kubernetes
          Service.

Downloadable link for Beeline CLI tarball
You can now download the Beeline CLI tarball from CDW and use
        the Beeline client to connect to a Hive Virtual Warehouse and run queries. The archive file
        contains all the dependent JARs and libraries that are required to run the Beeline script.
        Upgrade your existing Virtual Warehouse to use this feature.

Support for uploading non-UDF JARs
As part of this release, CDW enables administrators to upload additional non-UDF JARs to the Hive classpath
        that might be required to support dependency JARs, third-party Serde, or any Hive
        extensions.

Enhanced complex types support for Impala
This release allows you to use:
Array in SELECT list
UNNEST function for arrays in SELECT list

See Querying arrays for more information.

Ability to run Hive LLAP workloads using Hue without the “CDW_HUE_LLAP”
        entitlement
You can now use Hue to run Hive workloads in CDW without enabling the “CDW_HUE_LLAP”
        entitlement. Hue packs the combined features of Data Analytics Studio (DAS) and Hue in this
        new version. If you do not have the “CDW_HUE_LLAP” entitlement enabled in your environment,
        then you can get Hue by creating a new Hive Virtual Warehouse.

Ability to select the Hue image version
CDW allows you to select a Hue Runtime version from the Hue Image Version drop-down menu
        while creating a Virtual Warehouse. The compatible Hue image version is automatically
        selected based on the Hive or Impala image version that you select. If there is no
        corresponding Hue version for the selected Hive or Impala version, then the latest Hue
        version is automatically selected. For example, if you select Hive or Impala version
        2022.0.7.0-70, then 2022.0.7.0-70 is selected as the Hue image version.
You can also check the Hue image version from the Virtual Warehouse
          Details page.

Hue Query Processor runs at the Database Catalog level
The Hue Query Processor indexes and retrieves Hive query history by reading query event
        data from a Hadoop Compatible File System (HCFS), such as S3, and writing them into a
        relational database, such as PostgreSQL. Previously, the Hue Query Processor process ran at
        the Virtual Warehouse level. Therefore, there was one Query Processor pod running for each
        Virtual Warehouse associated with a Database Catalog. Now, the Query Processor pod runs at
        the Database Catalog level. This helps in reducing the read cost in the cloud.
A new tab called “Hue query processor” has been added under the Database Catalog > Edit > CONFIGURATIONS section. The “hue-query-processor.json” and
          “hue-event-processor.json” files are no longer available under the Virtual Warehouse > Edit > CONFIGURATIONS > Hue > Configuration files drop-down menu.
If you are on an older version of Virtual Warehouse, then you must create a new Database
        Catalog and Virtual Warehouse to activate this feature.
To tune the data refresh rate, see Configuring the Hue Query Processor scan
        frequency.

Ability to grant fine-grained access to S3 buckets from the S3 File Browser in Hue
        (Preview)
For better security and ease of use for users, you can create per-user home directories
        within your S3 bucket and grant fine-grained access to these user directories from the S3
        File Browser in Hue. To enable fine-grained access from the Hue S3 File Browser, you must
        enable Ranger Authorization Service (RAZ) when you register your AWS environment with CDP,
        and add the path to your S3 bucket in the hue-safety-valve field in
        CDW.
noteYou need to contact Cloudera to have this feature enabled.

Ability to grant fine-grained access to ADLS Gen2 containers from the ABFS File Browser
        in Hue (Preview)
For better security and ease of use for users, you can create per-user home directories
        within your ADLS Gen2 container and grant fine-grained access to these user directories from
        the ABFS File Browser in Hue. To enable fine-grained access from the Hue ABFS File Browser,
        you must enable RAZ when you register your Azure environment with CDP, and add the path to
        your ABFS container in the hue-safety-valve field in CDW. 
noteYou need to contact Cloudera to have this feature enabled.

Performance and security enhancements in Hue
Python 2 has reached the end of life and is no longer supported. Hue in CDW Public Cloud
        now uses Python 3 which makes use of critical bug fixes and Common Vulnerabilities and
        Exposures (CVE) fixes for many third-party software dependencies.
Following changes have been made in the Hue codebase in this release of CDW Public
          Cloud:
The Hue container now runs in the UBI8 image, which is upgraded from UBI7.
Python libraries have been upgraded from Python 2.7 to Python 3.8.
The Django server has been upgraded from version 1.11.29 to 3.2.12.
Python modules such as django-auth-ldap,
            django-axes, djangorestframework-simplejwt,
              Mako, Markdown, python-ldap,
              django-babel, django-mako,
              django-cors-headers, djangorestframework,
              eventlet, sqlparse, and so on have also been
            upgraded.
Hue now uses Gunicorn as a front-end server. Previously, Hue used the CherryPy
            server.

These upgrades bring in significant performance improvement and stability in query
        execution, uploading, and importing files to S3 or ABFS. Operating System, Python version,
        and Python module upgrades have resulted in a stable environment and fixed more than 800
        security vulnerabilities.
Also, the UBI8 image uses the latest Apache HTTP Server (httpd). This no longer requires
        you to limit the fully qualified domain name of your Virtual Warehouse to 64 characters.
Hue images now run as non-root users.

Selecting an availability zone when creating a Virtual Warehouse 
In AWS environments, you can now accept the default availability zone, or select your
        preferred zone when creating a Virtual Warehouse. To use this feature,
        create a new Virtual Warehouse.

AWS restricted permissions policy
As Administrator, to restrict access to your Cloudera Data Warehouse service, your IAM role
        must include the AWS restricted policy. You must add the
        policy to your IAM role before you activate the environment in Cloudera Data Warehouse to
        make the service available to users.


Parent topic: Older releases