September 15, 2022Cloudera Docs
September 15, 2022
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud introduces these changes.
Support for Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service 1.21 cluster
This release 1.4.3-b225 (released September 15, 2022) automatically uses and provisions Amazon
        Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) 1.21 when you activate an environment from CDW.  In this release,
        upgrading a cluster from EKS 1.20 to 1.21 is not supported.

Alert notification configuration 
You can now configure alert notifications that appear in user
        notification system. The notifications supplement alert information in charts on the
        Manage/Hive/Compaction Observability dashboard in Grafana. 

Impala Virtual Warehouse catalog high availability
In earlier releases, the single instance limitation of the Impala Virtual Warehouse catalog
    made the catalog a single point of failure. In this release, you can optionally configure
    replication of the Impala catalog for high availability. One instance
    operates in active mode, the other in passive mode to provide failover. The passive instance
    serves as a backup and takes over if the active instance goes down.

General availability of Managed Storage Access
CDW capabilities for storing data for multiple tenants is now generally available (GA). You
        set up a managed storage warehouse for AWS or for Azure.

General availability of SSO to Virtual Warehouses
In this release, the capability to enable SSO (single sign-on) to your
        Virtual Warehouse from JDBC/ODBC clients is generally available (GA).

Hive to Iceberg table migration disallowed under certain conditions
If you attempt to migrate a Hive table having VARCHAR or CHAR columns to Iceberg, an exception will occur in this release. Migration under these conditions is not allowed in this release because incorrect query results can occur. To
     work around this limitation, change VARCHAR and CHAR columns to string columns, and then migrate the table to Iceberg.

Impala Autoscaler Web UI
This release includes an addition to the Impala Web UI for debugging the Impala Virtual
        Warehouse. The new UI provides insight into Autoscaler operations, accessing log messages,
        and resetting the log level.

Additions to IAM policy, standard and restricted, permissions
In this release, if you want to use Amazon CloudWatch, add logging permissions: to your IAM
        policy: "logs:CreateLogGroup","logs:CreateLogStream","logs:DescribeLogStreams", and
        "logs:PutLogEvents". The arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/CloudWatchAgentAdminPolicy must also be
        added to the restricted permissions. 
Using CloudWatch is not required. Add logging permissions for CloudWatch only if you use
        this Amazon service. For more information about adding the CloudWatch logging permissions,
        see the following documentation:

Minimum set of IAM permissions required for reduced
                permissions mode


AWS restricted permissions policy



CREATE TABLE LIKE PARQUET FILE feature in Unified Analytics
You can base a new table on a schema in a Parquet file using the CREATE TABLE LIKE PARQUET FILE statement. 


Parent topic: Older releases