March 8, 2022Cloudera Docs
March 8, 2022
This release of the Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) service on CDP Public Cloud introduces
  these changes.
Apache Iceberg technical preview in Cloudera Data Warehouse
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) supports Apache Iceberg as a technical preview. Iceberg is a
       cloud-native, open table format for organizing petabyte-scale analytic datasets on a file system
       or object store. In CDW, you can read and write Iceberg tables using Hive or Impala SQL engines.
       Create a new Virtual Warehouse, or upgrade your existing one, to use Iceberg in CDW.

Automating metadata invalidation after compaction
After compaction of ACID tables, metadata in Impala coordinator local caches might be stale.
    Invalidation refreshes the metadata and prevents possible query failure. This release introduces
     automatic metadata invalidation, which you can configure
    in the Impala Virtual Warehouse. You must upgrade your Database Catalog to get this feature.

Cloudera Data Warehouse availability in Asia Pacific region
Cloudera Data Warehouse (CDW) is now supported in the ap-1 (Australia) regional Control Plane.
    To use CDW in this regional Control Planes, your CDP administrator must create a new
    environment. For the list of all supported services for all supported Control Plane regions, see
    CDP Control Plane regions.

Data Visualization integration in Cloudera Data Warehouse
The status of Data Visualization integration in CDW is GA in this
        release. CDW integrates Data Visualization for building graphic representations of data,
        dashboards, and visual applications based on CDW data, or other data sources you connect to.
        Authorized users can explore data using graphics, such as pie charts and histograms and
        collaborate using dashboards. BI analysts who can access your environment can use these
        features. In a future release, the Enable Data Visualization option
        in the New Virtual Warehouse dialog will be deprecated.

Impala coordinator shutdown
To save cloud costs, you can configure Impala coordinators to automatically
        shutdown during idle periods. In this release, coordinator shutdown feature status has
        changed to GA. The feature is available when you create an Impala Virtual Warehouse. 

Impala Virtual Warehouse High Availability
A single Impala coordinator might not handle the number of concurrent queries you want to run or
    provide the memory your queries require. You can configure multiple active-active coordinators to resolve
    or mitigate these problems. To use this feature, create a new Virtual Warehouse.

Impala late materialization of columns
The Data Warehouse Runtime release of Impala introduces late materialization, which optimizes certain
    queries on Parquet tables by limiting table scanning. Only relevant data is materialized to
    improve query response.

Istio version update
In this release, new environments you create support Istio 1.11.2. In new environments, you
        must select the latest Cloudera Data Warehouse image version 2021.0.6.96 when you create a
        Database Catalog and Virtual Warehouse, as described in Known issues. 

Log4j Update
Cloudera has released a new version of CDW that upgrades the embedded Log4j version to 2.17.1.


Parent topic: Older releases