Operational Database overviewCloudera Docs
Operational Database overview
Cloudera Operational Database delivers a real-time, always available, scalable
        operational database that serves traditional structured data alongside unstructured data
        within a unified operational and warehousing platform.
Cloudera Operational Database is powered by Apache HBase and Apache Phoenix. In Cloudera
            Operational Database, you use Apache HBase as a datastore with HDFS and/or S3 providing
            the storage infrastructure. You have the choice to either develop applications using one
            of the native Apache HBase API, or you can use Apache Phoenix for data access. Apache
            Phoenix is a SQL layer that provides a programmatic ANSI SQL interface. It works on top
            of Apache HBase, and it makes it possible to handle data using standard SQL queries and
            Apache Phoenix commands. You can use Cloudera Operational Database in the public cloud
            or on-premises.
Public cloud

CDP Data Hub Operational Database template 
Cloudera Operational Database (COD) experience that is is a managed datbase platfrom
                as a service (dbPaaS)

On-premises

CDP Private Cloud Base

Cloudera Operational Database plays the crucial role of a data store in the enterprise
            data lifecycle. The following graphic shows some of the key elements in a typical
            operational database deployment.




The operational database has the following components:


Apache Phoenix provides a SQL interface that runs on top of Apache
                    HBase. 




Apache HBase provides the key-value stores with massive scalability, so
                    you can store unlimited amounts of data in a single platform and handle growing
                    demands for serving data.




Apache ZooKeeper provides a distributed configuration service, a
                    synchronization service, and a naming registry.




Apache Knox Gateway provides perimeter security so that the enterprise
                    can confidently extend access to new users.




Apache HDFS is used to write the Apache HBase WALs.

Hue provides a web-based editor to create and browse Apache HBase tables.



Object store such as Amazon S3 and Microsoft ADLS Gen2 is used to store
                    the Apache HBase HFiles.




CLoudera Shared Data Experience (SDX) is used for security and governance
                    capabilities. Security and governance policies are set once and applied across
                    all data and workloads.


IDBroker provides an authentican mechanism that is built as part of
                    the Apache Knox authentication service. It allows an authenticated and
                    authorized user to exchange a set of credentials or a token for cloud vendor
                    access tokens.


Introduction to Apache HBaseApache HBase is a scalable, distributed, column-oriented datastore. Apache HBase   provides real-time read/write random access to very large datasets hosted on HDFS.Introduction to Apache PhoenixApache Phoenix is is a SQL layer for Apache HBase that provides a programmatic ANSI SQL     interface.