Ozone parcel installationCloudera Docs
Ozone parcel installation
To install the Ozone 718.1.0 parcel, perform the following procedure:

As a prevalidation for installation of the Ozone parcels, ensure that
                    /var/lib/hadoop-hdfs is present on all the nodes and owned
                by the user hdfs.


Log in to Cloudera Manager

On the left navigation pane, click Parcels

Click Parcel Repositories & Network Settings

In the Remote Parcel Repository URLs section, click the
                    "+" icon and add the Ozone 718.1.0
                        URL for your Parcel repository. For the Ozone parcel URL, refer to
                    the Downloading the Ozone
                        parcel section.

Click Save & Verify Configuration. A message with
                    the status of the verification appears above the Remote Parcel
                        Repository URLs section. If the URL is not valid, check the URL
                    and enter the correct URL.

After the URL is verified, click Close.

Locate the row in the table that contains the new Ozone parcel and click the
                    Download button.

After the download of the new Ozone parcel is complete, click the
                    Distribute button. 

Wait for the parcel to be distributed and unpacked before continuing. Cloudera
                    Manager displays the status of the Cloudera Runtime parcel distribution. Click
                    on the status display to view detailed status for each
                    host.

Prepare the Ozone service for an upgrade before upgrading the Ozone software.
                    Click Prepare for Upgrade under the
                    Action drop-down.

Click Stop under the Action
                    drop-down to stop the Ozone service

Click Activate on the Parcels
                    page.

Click Finish Upgrade under the
                    Action drop-down. Continue with next step.

Update Tez Configuration:


For tez.cluster.additional.classpath.prefix, the
                            value is /var/lib/hadoop-hdfs/* (Tez Additional
                            Classpath)


For tez.user.classpath.first, the value is
                            true (Tez Client Advanced Configuration Snippet
                            (Safety Valve) for tez-conf/tez-site.xml)



Update YARN to use the new Ozone Client Jars. Ozone parcel activation or
                    install should handle redeployment of YARN jars and clean-up cache. Perform the
                    following steps: 


Log in to Cloudera Manager UI.


Navigate to Clusters


Select the YARN service


Click Actions


Click Install YARN Service Dependencies


Click Install YARN MapReduce Framework JARs



Update Hive On Tez configuration:


For tez.cluster.additional.classpath.prefix the
                            value is /var/lib/hadoop-hdfs/* (Hive Service
                            Advanced Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for hive-site.xml)


For tez.user.classpath.first, the value is
                            true (Hive Service Advanced Configuration Snippet
                            (Safety Valve) for hive-site.xml)



Restart the CDP 7.1.8 cluster: Click the Actions menu and click
                    Restart.

Click Finalize Upgrade under the
                    Action drop-down.


Parent topic: OZONE-718.1.0