Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for Ozone HttpFS gatewayCloudera Docs
Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for Ozone HttpFS gateway
You can configure TLS/SSL encryption manually for Ozone HttpFS gateway using the
        below procedure. 
You must ensure that your Ozone deployment meets the
            following requirements:
The keystores containing certificates that are bound to the proper domain names
                    are accessible on all the hosts on which at least one Ozone role instance is
                    running.
The hdfs user has read permissions to the keystore files for
                    Ozone.
You must specify absolute paths to the keystore file. These settings apply to
                    all hosts on which the various Ozone role instances run. Therefore, the paths
                    that you specify must be valid on all the hosts. In addition, the keystore file
                    names for Ozone must be the same on all hosts.
 The Ozone HttpFS gateway is only available from the Ozone Parcel 2.0 and from
                    the Cloudera Manager version 7.10.1. For more information on other supported
                    gateways, see Configuring TLS/SSL encryption manually for
                        Ozone.Consider an example where you have separate
                            certificates for the Ozone role instances on hosts
                            node1.example.com and
                            node2.example.com, and you have chosen to store the
                            certificates in files with names ozone-node1.jks and
                            ozone-node2.jks respectively. When deploying these
                            keystores, you must provide them both with the same name on the target host,
                            for example, ozone.jks.


In Cloudera Manager, go to Ozone > Configuration.

Search for tls/ssl.

Enter the TLS/SSL properties for the various Ozone roles.
Provide the values for the properties corresponding to the following fields on
                    the Ozone configuration page:
Enable TLS/SSL for HttpFS Gateway
HttpFS Gateway TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                            Location
HttpFS Gateway TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore File
                            Password
HttpFS Gateway TLS/SSL Server JKS Keystore Key
                            Password

noteEnsure that you configure the
                                ozone.prometheus.ca.file property when
                                configuring TLS/SSL encryption for Ozone. If the location of the
                                root CA certificate is not specified, the location of the auto-TLS
                                CA certificate is considered as the default value for this property.
                            



Click Save Changes and restart the Ozone service.


Parent topic: Ozone HttpFS gateway