Known issues in Ozone parcel 718.2.1Cloudera Docs
Known issues in Ozone parcel 718.2.1
You must be aware of the known issues and limitations, the areas of impact, and
        workaround in Ozone parcel.
Tez Configuration Changes
The following configuration changes have to be made to pick up the latest Ozone FS jar from the Ozone parcel (when installed):


CDPD-48540
For
                        tez.cluster.additional.classpath.prefix, the value
                        is /var/lib/hadoop-hdfs/* (Tez Additional
                        Classpath)
For tez.user.classpath.first, the value
                        is true (Tez Client Advanced Configuration Snippet
                        (Safety Valve) for tez-conf/tez-site.xml)


CDPD-47605
For
                        tez.cluster.additional.classpath.prefix the value
                        is /var/lib/hadoop-hdfs/* (Hive Service Advanced
                        Configuration Snippet (Safety Valve) for
                        hive-site.xml)
For tez.user.classpath.first, the value
                        is true (Hive Service Advanced Configuration Snippet
                        (Safety Valve) for hive-site.xml)


Restart the TEZ and HIVE_ON_TEZ service as prompted by Cloudera Manager.

Update Yarn to use updated Ozone FS Jar

CDPD-48500: Ozone parcel activation or install should handle redeployment of YARN jars and clean-up cache.
Perform the following steps:
                        
Log in to Cloudera Manager UI
Navigate to Clusters
Select the YARN service
Click Actions
Click Install YARN Service Dependencies
Click YARN MapReduce Framework JARs
Restart the CDP 7.1.8 cluster




Other issues


CDPD-56006: On providing an incorrect hostname/service ID in the Ozone URI, the filesystem client instead of failing, retries till exhaustion and the default retry is too high.
Configure ozone.client.failover.max.attempts to a lower the value to avoid long endless retries.


CDPD-49137: Sometimes OM's kerberos token is not updated and it stops being able to communicate with SCM. When this occurs, writes will start to fail.
Restarting OM or setting the safety valve
                        hadoop.kerberos.keytab.login.autorenewal.enabled =
                        true will fix the issue.


CDPD-49808: Spark jobs against Ozone intermittently fail with ERROR spark.SparkContext: [main]: Error initializing SparkContext.java.lang.IllegalStateException: No filter named.
This is an intermittent failure which can be
                        retried.


CDPD-50678: Deleting containers which have one or more replicas which are not empty on the Datanode can cause the container to be stuck in a deleting state indefinitely. Containers in this state can also block decommission or maintenance operations completing.
None.




Parent topic: Release notes