Migrating Data Science Workbench (CDSW) to Machine LearningCloudera Docs
Migrating Data Science Workbench (CDSW) to Machine Learning
If you use Cloudera Data Science Workbench (CDSW) 1.10.0 and later on premises,
    consider migrating to Cloudera Machine Language (CML) as soon as possible. Cloudera recommends
    performing this migration because CDSW end-of-support is imminent. 
Before you begin the migration tasks, you can optionally repurpose your CDSW hosts instead of
      adding hardware for installing CML Private Cloud. Next, you install CML on the hosts. Finally,
      the UI-driven migration tool runs scripts in the background to migrate your workload
      automatically after installing CML on the cluster with your deployed CDSW.

Prerequisites for CDSW to CML migrationBefore migrating from Cloudera Data Science Workbench (CDSW) 1.10.0 or later to         Cloudera Machine Language (CML) in CDP Private Cloud 1.5.1, you must meet a number of         prerequisites to succeed. A prerequisite for migration is installation of CML on your CDSW         cluster.Repurposing CDSW nodes for CMLThe description of an example scenario prepares you to repurpose your existing         Cloudera Data Science Workbench (CDSW) hosts. If you need to repurpose any CDSW nodes for         CML, you must perform several tasks before starting the CDSW to CML migration.Customizing CDSW for migrating host mounts For security reasons, CML does not allow you to mount a directory directly from         hosts. You need to customize CDSW runtime to make contents of a directory available to your         CML workloads.Using the CDSW to CML Migration tool A step-by-step procedure covers how to migrate Cloudera Data Science Workbench         (CDSW) 1.10.0 and later on premises to Cloudera Machine Language (CML). You use the         UI-driven migration tool to migrate your workload automatically from your deployed CDSW,         which you installed on the same cluster as CML.Troubleshooting Preflight Migration Check IssuesProvides a list of preflight check issues and workarounds.Limitations of CDSW to CML migrationYou need to avoid unsupported operations that might cause migration to fail.Post-migration tasksAfter migrating Cloudera Data Science Workbench (CDSW) 1.10.0 or later to Cloudera         Machine Language (CML), you need to perform several tasks before moving users to CML. Troubleshooting CDSW to CML migrationYou need to know how to retry migration if your migration from Cloudera Data Science   Workbench (CDSW) 1.10.0 to Cloudera Machine Learning (CML) fails. Also, you learn how to find logs   for debugging migration and other issues.