Using the CDSW to CML Migration toolCloudera Docs
Using the CDSW to CML Migration tool
 A step-by-step procedure covers how to migrate Cloudera Data Science Workbench
        (CDSW) 1.10.0 and later on premises to Cloudera Machine Language (CML). You use the
        UI-driven migration tool to migrate your workload automatically from your deployed CDSW,
        which you installed on the same cluster as CML.

In this task, you automatically migrate CDSW 1.10.0 or later cluster to CML in
                Cloudera Private Cloud 1.5.1 or later. You can expect some downtime, which is
                proportional to the volume the workloads you have to migrate.

Meet prerequisites as described in the previous topic before
            starting migration. 

Log into CDP Private Cloud 1.5.1, and navigate to Cloudera Machine Learning > Workspaces.
The system detects the presence of your legacy CDSW installation and
                    provides a button to migrate CDSW to CML.



Click Migrate CDSW to CML.
The Migration tool provides an option to check CML for CDSW migration
                    readiness or just continue with the migration. 






Click the option for how you would like to proceed.


Check CML for CDSW migration readiness - The readiness or
                            preflight check creates a new workspace and runs readiness checks on the
                            workspace prior to performing the migration. 
Migrate CDSW to CML - The Migration tool provides a CML workspace
                            provision window with additional options.



If you choose the Check CML for CDSW migration readiness
                    option, the Migration tool displays the validation page. 



If you would like to provide a Kubeconfig for the migration check,
                            click File Upload, then Choose
                                File, and select the Kubeconfig file.
The Kubeconfig file can be found at
                                /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf  on the CDSW
                            cluster.
If you cannot access /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf
                            from the UI as instructed in the previous step, download the file from
                            your CDSW cluster to your local machine, and then try to select the
                            Kubeconfig file from the UI again.


In the Migration timeout section, accept the
                            default 24 hours timeout, or if your CDSW workload is hundreds of
                            gigabytes, increase the migration time up to 336 hours (14 days).
Increasing the migration timeout value does not cause a delay in the
                            migration of a small workload. 


In the Workspace Name field, type an arbitrary
                            name.


In the Select Environment field, select your CDP
                            environment.
After the readiness check has completed, the Migration tool displays a
                            status. You can see the readiness check summary in the
                                Workspace Details page. 


If the readiness check fails, you can obtain additional
                                    information about the failure on the Workspace
                                        Details page.
After you've addressed the issue resulting in the failed
                                    readiness check, you can retry the readiness check by choosing
                                        Retry Migration Readiness check from
                                    the Actions menu.




After the readiness check, incremental migration can be performed to
                            continue the migration operation Alternatively, you can choose to create
                            a new workspace by clicking the Migrate CDSW to
                                CML button.



When you proceed with the CDSW to CML migration, the Migration tool displays
                    the Migrations Settings window. 


If you would like to provide a Kubeconfig for the migration, click
                        File Upload, then Choose File,
                    and select the Kubeconfig file.
The Kubeconfig file can be found at /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf
                     on the CDSW cluster.
If you cannot access /etc/kubernetes/admin.conf from the
                    UI as instructed in the previous step, download the file from your CDSW cluster
                    to your local machine, and then try to select the Kubeconfig file from the UI
                    again.

In the Migration timeout section, accept the default 24
                    hours timeout, or if your CDSW workload is hundreds of gigabytes, increase the
                    migration time up to 48 hours.
Increasing the migration timeout value does not cause a delay in the migration
                    of a small workload. 

In the Workspace Name field, type an arbitrary
                    name.

In the Select Environment field, select your CDP
                    environment.

Accept default values for other options, and click Provision
                        Workspace.
After the CML installation, the migration readiness checks and the
                    migration follow automatically. Status indicators show the progress of the
                    installation and migration. During the migration, you can access the CDSW
                    cluster. The migration process does not stop CDSW pods. The CML workspace is
                        stopped.noteAny changes to CDSW during the migration
                        will not be copied to CML. These changes will be copied in subsequent
                        incremental migrations.


To display the progress of the migration including events and logs while the
                    workspace is in migration mode, navigate to the Workspace
                        Details page and click the Migration
                        Progress tab.
You can also view details of the migration and events and logs by clicking the
                    appropriate tabs. 


When the initial migration is complete, the state changes to
                        Validate Migration Started. 


Open the workspace by clicking the workspace name and validate the
                    workloads.
Any changes made to the workspace while you are validating the workspace will
                    be overwritten during the incremental migration.

At this point, you can choose to do multiple incremental migrations or a
                    single, longer migration.


To perform incremental migrations, select the Incremental
                                CDSW Migration option from the
                                Actions menu. CDSW is not stopped during
                                incremental migrations.
To perform a single, longer migration, select the Incremental
                                CDSW Migration option from the
                                Actions menu, click the Perform
                                final migration checkbox, then click
                                OK.During the final migration, CDSW will
                                be stopped and will not be restarted. After the final migration,
                                only the CML workspace will be active. 



The Migration tool displays the Incremental CDSW migration dialog box.



If you choose to perform incremental migrations, choose your parameters for the
                    migrations.


CDSW Kubeconfig
This is an optional parameter. If there is no change to the CDSW
                                Kubeconfig, then you do not need to select this option. The system
                                will use the kubeconfig that was provided during the initial
                                migration. This option can be helpful if CDSW is restarted during
                                the migration and there are changes to the CDSW kubeconfig. 
Migration timeout
You can specify the amount of time allowed for the migration before
                                it timeouts. This timeout value is specified in hours and can range
                                from 0 to 48 hours. 



If you choose to perform incremental migrations, when the CML validation is
                    complete and all workloads work as expected, select Perform final
                        migration and choose the appropriate option. 

After you perform the final migration, CDSW will be in a stopped state.
Perform final migration provides three options:





Stop applications
If you select the Stop applications option, the
                                            applications in the CML will be in the stopped state
                                            after the migration. You must manually start each
                                            application after the final migration.
Stop jobs
If you select the Stop jobs option, the recurring jobs
                                            in the CML will be in the paused state after the
                                            migration. You must manually start each job after the
                                            final migration.
Stop models
If you select the Stop models option, the models in the
                                            CML will be in the stopped state after the migration.
                                            You must manually start each model after the final
                                            migration.





Now that the migration is complete, you can use CML. 


Parent topic: Migrating Data Science Workbench (CDSW) to Machine Learning