Prerequisites for CDSW to CML migrationCloudera Docs
Prerequisites for CDSW to CML migration
Before migrating from Cloudera Data Science Workbench (CDSW) 1.10.0 or later to
        Cloudera Machine Language (CML) in CDP Private Cloud 1.5.1, you must meet a number of
        prerequisites to succeed. A prerequisite for migration is installation of CML on your CDSW
        cluster.
Migration from CDSW configured with LDAP, SAML, or LOCAL
            authentication to CML is supported, but the automatic migration described in this
            document is supported only if CDSW is running with LDAP. The migration process does not
            automatically migrate your authentication configurations. The steps below for meeting
            prerequisites include LDAP set up in CDSW before migration begins. Later, you follow
            post-migration instructions to configure LDAP on CML. The migration also does not
                migrate your CDSW endpoint connections. Later, you follow post-migration
                instructions to set up LDAP, endpoint connections, and DNS on CML. Also, you need to
                download CDSW-related Grafana dashboards, so you can upload them after migration to
                CML. 

You must have a CDSW 1.10.0 or later cluster in CDP; otherwise, make one of the
                    following choices.

If you have a CDSW installation in either CDH or HDP, migrate to CDP Private Cloud 1.5.1
                        or later, and then migrate CDSW to CML. 
If you have CDSW installation earlier than 1.10.0, upgrade to CDSW 1.10.0 or later.
                    


If you do not have LDAP set up in your CDSW cluster on CDP, set up LDAP before pre-migration
                    tasks.
The migration process cannot succeed without authentication. 

Conform to CML Software Requirements, including
                    storage, for installing CML on CDP Private Cloud 1.5.1 or later.

Backup CDSW data.

In CDSW, export your Grafana dashboards.

Note the connections of endpoints in your CDSW cluster note your custom
                    settings.
You need to use this information after migration to set up endpoints in your
                    private cloud cluster.

If you customized your DNS configuration, note your custom settings for use in
                    customizing your DNS configuration after migration.
If you did not customize your DNS configuration, the migration tool will
                    configure DNS in your private cloud cluster.

Gather information about your LDAP configurations on CDSW. 
After migration, you must set up LDAP again on the CML cluster. The LDAP
                    configuration is not migrated. 

In CDSW, manually back up the custom DNS configuration for Kube-DNS, and then
                    migrate your custom configuration to CML.
CML uses the core-DNS, which is incompatible with the CDSW Kube-DNS.

In Cloudera Manager, select install or upgrade to CDP Private Cloud
                        1.5.1 or later using the Embedded Container Service (ECS) on your
                    CDSW cluster.
Migration of your CDSW workloads to CML on OpenShift is not supported.

During installation of CDP Private Cloud Data
                        Services using ECS set up a network connection between CDSW and the
                    CDP Private Cloud cluster if you select Airgap.

Enable the CML features during installation that are counterparts to those you
                    were using in CDSW. 
For example, enable model metrics and monitoring.


If you do not enable the same, or similar, CML features during installation
                    that you were using in CDSW, attempting to use the CML feature later will
                    fail.


Parent topic: Migrating Data Science Workbench (CDSW) to Machine Learning