List of required configuration parameters for the Confluent Cloud to S3/ADLS ReadyFlowCloudera Docs
List of required configuration parameters for the
      Confluent Cloud to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow
When deploying the Confluent Cloud to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow, you have to provide the following parameters. Use the
  information you collected in Prerequisites.
Table 1. Confluent Cloud to S3/ADLS ReadyFlow configuration parameters

Parameter Name
Description



CDP Workload User
Specify the CDP machine user or workload username that you want to use to authenticate
       to the object stores. Ensure this user has the appropriate access rights to the object store
       locations in Ranger or IDBroker.


CDP Workload User Password
Specify the password of the CDP machine user or workload user you are using to
       authenticate against the object stores (via IDBroker).


CSV Delimiter
If your source data is CSV, specify the delimiter here.


Data Input Format

Specify the format of your input data. You can use "CSV", "JSON" or "AVRO" with
        this ReadyFlow.


CSV


JSON


AVRO





Data Output Format
Specify the desired format for your output data. You can use "CSV", "JSON" or "AVRO"
       with this ReadyFlow.


Destination S3 or ADLS Path
Specify the name of the destination S3 or ADLS path you want to write to. Make sure
       that the path starts with "/".


Destination S3 or ADLS Storage Location
Specify the name of the destination S3 bucket or ADLS Container you want to write
        to.For S3, enter a value in the form: s3a://[Destination S3 Bucket]For ADLS, enter a
       value in the form: abfs://[Destination ADLS File System]@[Destination ADLS Storage
       Account].dfs.core.windows.net


Filter Rule

Specify the filter rule expressed in SQL to filter streaming events for the
        destination database. Records matching the filter will be written to the destination
        database. The default value forwards all records.



Kafka Broker Endpoint

Specify the Kafka bootstrap server.



Kafka Client API Key

Specify the API Key to connect to the Kafka cluster.



Kafka Client API Secret

Specify the API Secret to connect to the Kafka cluster.



Kafka Consumer Group Id

The name of the consumer group used for the source topic you are consuming
        from.



Kafka Source Topic

Specify a topic name that you want to read from.



Kafka Schema Name

Specify the schema name to be looked up in the Confluent Schema Registry for the
        Source Kafka Topic.



Kafka Source Topic
Specify the topic name that you want to read from.


Schema Registry Client Key
Specify the API Key to connect to the Confluent Schema Registry.


Schema Registry Client Secret
Specify the API Secret to connect to the Confluent Schema Registry.


Schema Registry Endpoint
Specify the Schema Registry API endpoint.



Related conceptsPrerequisitesRelated informationDeploying a ReadyFlow