Back up an ML workspaceCloudera Docs
Back up an ML workspace
Backing up an ML workspace preserves all files, models, applications, and other
        assets in the workspace, although files in external NFS-backed workspaces are not backed up
        by CML automatically.

In the Workspaces UI, find the workspace to back up. The
                    workspace must be in the Installation completed state,
                    otherwise backup is disabled.

Enter the workspace, and manually stop all workloads (sessions, jobs,
                    applications, and models).
For external NFS backed workspaces, manually back up the configured external
                    NFS data to another location. This manual backup of the NFS data will be used
                    when this particular backup is restored in future. Ignore this step if the
                    workspace is configured with internal NFS, as internal NFS data is backed up and
                    restored automatically by CML.

In the Actions menu for that workspace, select
                        Backup Workspace.

In the Backup Workspace modal, enter a Backup
                        Name to identify the workspace, and enter an appropriate timeout
                    value.

Click Backup to start the process.

The workspace shuts down, and the backup process begins. The workspace state changes
            to reflect the ongoing backup progress. If necessary, click
                Cancel to cancel the backup process. The backup process can
            take some time to complete, depending on the amount of data to copy. noteThe default
                timeout is 12 hours. The estimated time to complete a backup (from the cloud
                provider) is now periodically added to the event logs.

Monitoring event logs
You can monitor the progress of the backup process by checking the event logs. In the
                    Actions menu for the workspace, click View
                    Event Logs, and then on the Events & Logs
                tab, click View Event Logs again for the latest backup event. 
When the backup process completes, the workspace enters the Installation completed
                state again.
If there were issues during backup, appropriate error messages will be displayed in
                the event logs. However the workspace will recover from failure and will be reverted
                back to the original state when backup was triggered.

Parent topic: Backing up ML workspaces