Backing up ML workspacesCloudera Docs
Backing up ML workspaces
Cloudera Machine Learning makes it easy to create machine learning projects, jobs,
  experiments, ML models, and applications in workspaces. The data and metadata of these artifacts
  are stored in different types of storage systems in the cloud
  .
You can backup an ML workspace, and restore it to a new
    workspace later. The backup preserves all files, models, applications and other assets in
   the workspace (files are note backed up by CML automatically for external NFS-based workspaces).
   All workspace backups can be viewed in the Workspace Backup Catalog
   UI.
The Backup and Restore feature gives you the ability to backup all of your data (except files
   in external NFS-backed workspaces) to protect your machine learning artifacts against disasters.
   If your Cloudera Machine Learning workspace is backed up, this feature lets you restore the saved
   data into a new CML workspace so that you can recover your ML
   artifacts as they were saved in the desired backup. The Backup and Restore feature gives the
   administrator the ability to take “on-demand” backups of CML workspaces. Core services running in
   the workspace are shut down during the backup process to ensure consistency in the backup data.
   It is recommended that backups are taken during off-peak hours to minimize user impacts.
The time required to complete backing up a workspace depends on the
   amount of data to copy. The backup process copies data from both EBS volumes and EFS. In general,
   the time taken to backup EFS is more significant than for EBS. Due to the incremental nature of
   backups, the first backup always takes the longest amount of time. Subsequent backups should
   complete faster as they are built on top of the initial backup copy. For this reason, we
   recommend that CML workspaces be backed up regularly.
The time to backup EFS is highly dependent on the amount of data,
   and on the nature and number of files. It is also affected by available bandwidth in the AWS
   cloud backend. We have seen first-time backup of a 600 GB EFS file system taking around 10 hours.
   If you have much more than 600 GB on your EFS file system, the default backup timeout of 12 hours
   may not be long enough. In such cases, we recommend you take your first backup with a lower
   timeout, such as 2 hours. The CML Control Plane may abort the backup due to the timeout expiry.
   However, the Control Plane does not cancel the underlying backup jobs. You can monitor these
   backup jobs on the AWS Backup console, and if all eventually complete successfully, you can
   initiate the backup operation again from the CML Control Plane. This should complete in a
   relatively shorter time, and you will have a good backup copy to restore from if necessary.
There is currently no restriction on the number of backups one can take, and the backup
   snapshots are retained indefinitely in the backup service vault of
    the underlying cloud platform
   . CML workspace backup details are
   stored in the Workspace Backup Catalog UI in the CML control plane, and
   these entries may be listed, viewed, deleted or restored as desired.
Restoring a backup creates a new CML workspace wherein the restored
   data is automatically imported. All the projects, jobs, applications, etc., that were in
   existence during the backup are automatically available in the new workspace. Restoring a CML
   backup provisions a new cluster, and then launches restore jobs to create storage volumes from
   the backup snapshots. The restore process takes longer than a regular workspace provisioning
   operation due to the extra work in copying data from backup to the new storage volumes. While
   backups are incremental, restores are always full-copy restores. The time to restore is dominated
   by EFS restoration, which takes at least as long as the time to backup the file system. The
   restored workspace is always created with the latest CML software version, which may be different
   from the CML version of the original workspace that was backed up.
noteAt this time, the ML workspace Backup and Restore feature is
   available on AWS, both through the UI and CLI. On Azure, this feature is only available through
   CLI.
noteMake sure that disks are tagged to avoid garbage collection
   during backup, restore, upgrade, or suspend operations on CML workspaces. For more information,
   see Tagging disks to avoid garbage collection.
noteA restored workspace from the workspace backup is considered a
   new separate workspace independent of the original workspace. Users' roles in the Control Plane
   from the original or backup workspace are not copied and assigned to the restored workspaces by
   the restore process to avoid security concerns and have to be moved after restore manually if
   intended.

Related informationTagging disks to avoid garbage collectionWorkspace Backup and Restore PrerequisitesTo backup and restore workspaces, check that the following prerequisites are   satisfied.Back up an ML workspaceBacking up an ML workspace preserves all files, models, applications, and other         assets in the workspace, although files in external NFS-backed workspaces are not backed up         by CML automatically.Restore an ML workspaceRestoring a backup creates a new CML workspace, and             recreates all of the projects, jobs, applications and so on in the original             workspace. Restoring to a different environmentA backup can be restored to a different CDP environment, as long as it is within the   same AWS account and region. Make sure the following requirements are met: