Modify Instance Group TypeCloudera Docs
Modify Instance Group Type
You can easily change the instance type of CML workspaces, which is beneficial for
  optimizing performance and cost. 
Key Benefits of Modifying Instance Groups:

Scalability and Flexibility: Scale up or down to meet user workload needs, handle peak
    traffic or save costs during off-peak periods.
Cloud Provider Compatibility: We understand that cloud providers may retire or end-of-service
    (EOS) certain instance types. Our Modify Instance Group feature takes this into account and
    allows you to seamlessly adapt to changes in the cloud provider's offerings, ensuring your CML
    workspace stays up-to-date.

Currently, Instance Group modification is only supported for CPU and GPU Worker instance
   groups.
noteAs cloud platforms do not support heterogeneous instance types within a single instance
   group, the current Modify Instance Group Type workflow involves deleting the existing instance
   group and recreating it with the desired instance type. However, it's important to note that this
   process may disrupt user workloads running in the user namespace of the CML Workspace, including
   user-created sessions, jobs, models, and applications.
Modify the Instance Group from the CDPCLI
The following example shows how to modify the instance group from the command line.
cdp ml modify-cluster-instance-group --workspace-crn <workspace-crn>
   --instance-group-name <instance-group-name> –instance-type <instance-type>

Modify the Instance Group from the UI

Go to the Workspace Details page.
Navigate to the Workspace Instances section on the
      Workspace Details page.
Click on the Edit button (as shown in Figure 1).
Choose the appropriate Instance Type from the list of available
     instance types (as shown in Figure 2).
Click on the Save button. A confirmation box will appear (as shown in
     Figure 3).
Click on the Ok button to modify the instance group with the chosen
     instance type. 

Figure 1. Figure 1: Edit Workspace Instance Group option in Workspace Details Page


Figure 2. Figure 2: List of Instance Types for a Instance Group


Figure 3. Figure 3: Confirmation box for Modify Instance Group Type


noteDuring the modification process, there may be errors such as Bad Gateway
    or 404 Page not found. In this case, the applications can fail and may need to
    be restarted.


