Upgrading ML WorkspacesCloudera Docs
Upgrading ML Workspaces
This topic describes how to upgrade existing ML workspaces. Currently, only CDP users
  with both the MLAdmin role and the EnvironmentAdmin account role can create, upgrade, or remove
  workspaces.
Existing ML workspaces periodically should be upgraded. Upgrading the workspace upgrades the
   CML software version to the current version, and may also upgrade cluster software. In case the
   underlying Kubernetes software must be upgraded, a warning banner displays, notifying you that
   you should upgrade the workspace promptly.

During an upgrade, any running models and applications shut down, but they automatically
    restart after the upgrade is complete.
To upgrade Kubernetes, only use the upgrade method provided in CML. Do not upgrade Kubernetes
    directly in the cloud console or through the CLI. Follow the instructions here to upgrade
    Kubernetes. If there is some error, then repeat the instructions. This applies to both Microsoft
    Azure and AWS.
You should back up your workspace before starting the upgrade. For more information, see
    Backing up ML workspaces.

When is an upgrade necessary?
Cloud service providers define their generally available version of Kubernetes based on their
    Kubernetes version support policies. For AKS refer to Supported Kubernetes versions in Azure
     Kubernetes Service (AKS) and for EKS refer to Amazon EKS Kubernetes release calendar.
Cloud service providers may have different deprecation policies for Kubernetes versions:

For AWS deprecation policy, refer their FAQ section in Amazon EKS version support and
     FAQ.
For Azure, refer to the Azure Kubernetes FAQ.

If any Kubernetes version used in your ML workspaces is deprecated by the cloud providers and
    CML upgrades are enabled, the warning banner displays.
ACTION REQUIRED: A new CML version is available and it is highly recommended to upgrade
    to the latest version as soon as possible. To perform an upgrade, select Upgrade
     Workspace from the Actions menu.
In order to avoid unplanned service interruption caused by the automatic Kubernetes upgrade by
    EKS and continue to receive support from AKS for your ML workspaces on Azure, it is important to
    make sure that your ML workspaces are using supported Kubernetes versions. Upgrading a ML
    workspace will automatically upgrade the Kubernetes to a supported version. We recommend our
    users to upgrade the ML workspaces promptly when the warning banner appears.

What type of upgrades does CML Support?
In-place ML upgrades
Upgrades are done in-place on the existing CML workspace. This may involve a Kubernetes
    upgrade (if there is an upgrade available) followed by upgrading the CML software.
noteMake sure to backup your workspace before starting the upgrade process. For more
    information, see Backing up ML workspaces.

 Log in to the CDP web interface. 
 Click ML Workspaces. 
 For a given workspace, click on the Actions icon and select Upgrade
      Workspace. 
 Click OK to confirm. 

The upgrade process may take anywhere between two to four hours, approximately.
Upgrades through CML Backup & Restore
If a CML workspace upgrade from a specific version could not be validated due to Kubernetes
    version deprecations on cloud providers or is deemed risky, in-place upgrades will be disabled
    for these versions.
In such cases, depending on the version of CML either the upgrade button is disabled or the
    in-place upgrade pre-flight check will fail, with a failure message pops up that says:

In-place upgrades from <existing_version> are not supported. Follow the documentation for the backup based upgrade steps.

In this case, it is recommended to go with Backup/Restore to upgrade to the latest CML
    version, essentially performing a workspace upgrade with all your previous data in place. Refer
    to ML Upgrades using Backup/Restore for more information.
noteMake sure that disks are tagged to avoid garbage collection during backup, restore, upgrade,
    or suspend operations on CML workspaces. For more information, see Tagging disks to avoid
     garbage collection.


Related informationBacking up ML workspacesML Upgrades using Backup/RestoreSupported Kubernetes versions in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)Azure Kubernetes FAQAmazon EKS Kubernetes release calendarAmazon EKS version support and FAQTagging disks to avoid garbage collection