Granting CDP Users Access to Cloudera Machine Learning WorkspacesCloudera Docs
Granting CDP Users Access to Cloudera Machine Learning
    Workspaces
noteThis topic applies only to public cloud releases.This topic describes how to grant the MLAdmin and MLUser roles to
    users/groups that must be allowed to provision/list and access ML workspaces
      within a specific environment. 
Log in to the CDP web interface.
For a specific environment, grant the MLAdmin and MLUser roles to
          users/groups that must be allowed to provision/list and access ML workspaces within that
          environment. In addition, if a user needs to provision, upgrade, or delete an ML
          workspace, they also need the account-level EnvironmentAdmin role assigned. For
          more information, see Understanding account roles and resource roles.


Click Environments.


Search for the environment and navigate to the environment's
                Clusters page. 


Expand the Actions dropdown and click Manage
                Access.


Search for the user or group that requires access to the CML service in this
              environment and assign one of the following roles to each user/group: 


MLAdmin - This role grants a CDP user/group the ability to
            create and delete Cloudera Machine Learning workspaces within a given CDP environment.
            MLAdmins will also have Site Administrator level access to all the workspaces
            provisioned within this environment. That is, they can run workloads, monitor, and
            manage all user activity on these workspaces.OR

MLUser - This role grants a CDP user/group the ability to list
            Cloudera Machine Learning workspaces provisioned within a given CDP environment. MLUsers
            will also be able to run workloads on all the workspaces provisioned within this
            environment.




Click Update Roles.


If necessary, search for and assign the EnvironmentAdmin role in the same
              way.

noteThe first user to log in to an ML workspace must always be a Site Admin (that
                is, a user with the MLAdmin role assigned to them). If a user assigned the MLUser
                role attempts to access the workspace first, the web application will display an
                error.





Related informationUnderstanding account roles and resource rolesParent topic: Configuring User Access to CML