ConceptsCloudera Docs
Concepts
Learn about basic concepts of flow design and how those concepts relate to their NiFi
  counterparts.

Controller Service

Controller Services are extension points that provide information for use by other
      components (such as processors or other controller services). The idea is that, rather than
      configure this information in every processor that might need it, the controller service
      provides it for any processor to use as needed.

Draft

A draft is a flow definition in development, and its lifecycle is tied to the
      workspace it is created in. You can edit, update, and continuously test drafts by starting a
      Test Session. When your draft  is ready to be deployed in production, you can publish it as a
      flow definition to the CDF catalog. 

Workspace
A workspace is where your drafts are stored. You can manage and delete drafts from this
     view. The workspace is automatically created when DataFlow is enabled for an environment and is
     tied to the lifecycle of your DataFlow service.
Environment
A logical environment defined with a specific virtual network and region on a customer’s
     cloud provider account. After enabling DataFlow for an environment, its service components run
     in an environment. 
Parameter group

One default parameter group is auto-created when you create a new draft. You can then add
      parameters this one group, you cannot create additional ones. When you initiate a test
      session, a number of parameters are auto-generated in this parameter group. Depending on the
      configuration options you chose, these are necessary for your NiFi sandbox deployment, and
      also make it possible to integrate your NiFi instance with CDP components or external data
      sources.
This default group is automatically bound to each Process Group you create within
      your draft, making all parameters available to be used in any process group. 

Processor
The Processor is the NiFi component that is used to listen for incoming data; pull data from
     external sources; publish data to external sources; and route, transform, or extract
     information from FlowFiles.For more information, see Apache NiFi User Guide.
Process group

When a data flow becomes complex, it often is beneficial to reason about the data
      flow at a higher, more abstract level. NiFi allows multiple components, such as Processors, to
      be grouped together into a Process Group. 
In CDF Flow Designer, creating a draft automatically creates a process group with
      the name you specified when creating the draft, acting as the root process group. You can
      create child process groups as you see fit to organize your data processing logic. 
For more information, see Apache NiFi User Guide.

Service

A logical environment defined with a specific virtual network and region on a customer’s
      cloud provider account. CDF service components run in an environment. In the CDF Service, you
      can provision a workload. This workload allows you to create a number of NiFi Deployments. 

Test session
Starting a test session provisions NiFi resources, acting like a development sandbox for a
     particular draft flow. It allows you to work with live data to validate your data flow logic
     while updating your draft. You can suspend a test session any time and change the configuration
     of the NiFi cluster then resume testing with the updated configuration. 


